Subelement 3D -- Electrical principles 


1]  What is reactive power?

a}  Wattless, non-productive power.@@

b}  Power consumed in wire resistance in an inductor.

c}  Power lost because of capacitor leakage.

d}  Power consumed in circuit Q.


2]  What is the term for an out-of-phase, non-productive power
associated with inductors and capacitors?

a}  Effective power.

b}  True power.

c}  Peak envelope power.

d}  Reactive power.@@


3]  What is the term for energy that is stored in an
electromagnetic or electrostatic field?

a}  Potential energy.@@

b}  Amperes-joules.

c}  Joules-coulombs.

d}  Kinetic energy.


4]  What is responsible for the phenomenon when voltages across
reactances in series can often be larger than the voltages
applied to them?

a}  Capacitance.

b}  Resonance.@@

c}  Conductance.

d}  Resistance.


5]  What is resonance in an electrical circuit?

a}  The highest frequency that will pass current.


b}  The lowest frequency that will pass current.

c}  The frequency at which capacitive reactance equals inductive
reactance.@@

d}  The frequency at which power factor is at a minimum.


6]  Under what conditions does resonance occur in an electrical
circuit?

a}  When the power factor is at a minimum.

b}  When inductive and capacitive reactances are equal.@@

c}  When the square root of the sum of the capacitive and
inductive reactances is equal to the resonant frequency.

d}  When the square root of the product of the capacitive and
inductive reactances is equal to the resonant frequency.


7]  What is the term for the phenomena that occurs in an
electrical circuit when the inductive reactance equals the
capacitive reactance?

a}  Reactive quiescence.

b}  High Q.

c}  Reactive equilibrium.

d}  Resonance.@@


8]  What is the approximate magnitude of the impedance of a
series R-L-C circuit at resonance?

a}  High, as compared to the circuit resistance.

b}  Approximately equal to the circuit resistance.@@

c}  Approximately equal to XL.

d}  Approximately equal to XC.


9]  What is the approximate magnitude of the impedance of a
parallel R-L-C circuit at resonance?

a}  Approximately equal to the circuit resistance.@@

b}  Approximately equal to XL.


c}  Low, as compared to the circuit resistance.

d}  Approximately equal to XC.


10]  What is the characteristic of the current flow in a series
R-L-C circuit at resonance?

a}  It is at a minimum.

b}  It is at a maximum.@@

c}  It is DC.

d}  It is zero.


11]  What is the characteristic of the current flow in a
parallel R-L-C circuit at resonance?

a}  The current circulating in the parallel elements is at a
minimum.

b}  The current circulating in the parallel elements is at a
maximum.@@

c}  The current circulating in the parallel elements is DC.

d}  The current circulating in the parallel elements is zero.


12]  What is the skin effect?

a}  The phenomenon where RF current flows in a thinner layer of
the conductor, close to the surface, as frequency increases.@@

b}  The phenomenon where RF current flows in a thinner layer of
the conductor, close to the surface, as frequency decreases.

c}  The phenomenon where thermal effects on the surface of the
conductor increase the impedance.

d}  The phenomenon where thermal effects on the surface of the
conductor decrease the impedance.


13]  What is the term for the phenomenon where most of an RF
current flows along the surface of the conductor?

a}  Layer effect.

b}  Seeburg Effect.

c}  Skin effect.@@

d}  Resonance.


14]  Where does practically all of the RF current flow in a
conductor?

a}  Along the surface.@@

b}  In the center of the conductor.

c}  In the magnetic field around the conductor.

d}  In the electromagnetic field in the conductor center.


15]  Why does practically all of an RF current flow within a
few thousandths-of-an-inch of the conductor's surface?

a}  Because of skin effect.@@

b}  Because the RF resistance of the conductor is much less than
the DC resistance.

c}  Because of heating of the metal at the conductor's interior.

d}  Because of the AC-resistance of the conductor's self
inductance.


16]  Why is the resistance of a conductor different for RF
current than for DC?

a}  Because the insulation conducts current at radio frequencies.

b}  Because of the Heisenburg Effect.

c}  Because of skin effect.@@

d}  Because conductors are non-linear devices.


17]  What is a magnetic field?

a}  Current flow through space around a permanent magnet.

b}  A force set up when current flows through a conductor.@@

c}  The force between the plates of a charged capacitor.

d}  The force that drives current through a resistor.


18]  In what direction is the magnetic field about a conductor
when current is flowing?

a}  In the same direction as the current.

b}  In a direction opposite to the current flow.

c}  In all directions; omnidirectional.

d}  In a direction determined by the left hand rule.@@


19]  What device is used to store electrical energy in an
electrostatic field?

a}  A battery.

b}  A transformer.

c}  A capacitor.@@

d}  An inductor.


20]  What is the term used to express the amount of electrical
energy stored in an electrostatic field?

a}  Coulombs.

b}  Joules.@@

c}  Watts.

d}  Volts.


21]  What factors determine the capacitance of a capacitor?

a}  Area of the plates, voltage on the plates and distance
between the plates.

b}  Area of the plates, distance between the plates and the
dielectric constant of the material between the plates.@@

c}  Area of the plates, voltage on the plates and the dielectric
constant of the material between the plates.

d}  Area of the plates, amount of charge on the plates and the
dielectric constant of the material between the plates.


22]  What is the dielectric constant for air?

a}  Approximately 1.@@


b}  Approximately 2.

c}  Approximately 4.

d}  Approximately 0.


23]  What determines the strength of the magnetic field around
a conductor?

a}  The resistance divided by the current.

b}  The ratio of the current to the resistance.

c}  The diameter of the conductor.

d}  The amount of current.@@


24]  Why would the rate at which electrical energy is used in a
circuit be less than the product of the magnitudes of the AC
voltage and current?

a}  Because there is a phase angle that is greater than zero
between the current and voltage.@@

b}  Because there are only resistances in the circuit.

c}  Because there are no reactances in the circuit.

d}  Because there is a phase angle that is equal to zero between
the current and voltage.


25]  In a circuit where the AC voltage and current are out of phase, how can the true power
be determined?

a}  By multiplying the apparent power times the power factor.@@

b}  By subtracting the apparent power from the power factor.

c}  By dividing the apparent power by the power factor.

d}  By multiplying the RMS voltage times the RMS current.


26]  What does the power factor equal in an R-L circuit having
a 60 degree phase angle between the voltage and the current?

a}  1.414.

b}  0.866.

c}  0.5.@@

d}  1.73.


27]  What does the power factor equal in an R-L circuit having
a 45 degree phase angle between the voltage and the current?

a}  0.866.
b}  1.0.
c}  0.5.
d}  0.707.@@


28]  What does the power factor equal in an R-L circuit having
a 30 degree phase angle between the voltage and the current?

a}  1.73.
b}  0.5.
c}  0.866.@@
d}  0.577.


29]  How many watts are being consumed in a circuit having a
power factor of 0.2 when the input is 100-V AC and 4-amperes is
being drawn?

a}  400 watts.

b}  80 watts.@@

c}  2000 watts.

d}  50 watts.


30]  How many watts are being consumed in a circuit having a
power factor of 0.6 when the input is 200-V AC and 5-amperes is
being drawn?

a}  200 watts.

b}  1000 watts.

c}  1600 watts.

d}  600 watts.@@


31]  What is the effective radiated power of a repeater with 50
watts transmitter power output, 4 dB feedline loss, 3 dB duplexer
and circulator loss, and 6 dB antenna gain?

a}  158 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

b}  39.7 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.@@

c}  251 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

d}  69.9 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.


32]  What is the effective radiated power of a repeater with 50
watts transmitter power output, 5 dB feedline loss, 4 dB duplexer
and circulator loss, and 7 dB antenna gain?

a}  300 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

b}  315 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

c}  31.5 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.@@

d}  69.9 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.


33]  What is the effective radiated power of a repeater with 75
watts transmitter power output, 4 dB feedline loss, 3 dB duplexer
and circulator loss, and 10 dB antenna gain?

a}  600 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

b}  75 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

c}  18.75 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

d}  150 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.@@


34]  What is the effective radiated power of a repeater with 75
watts transmitter power output, 5 dB feedline loss, 4 dB duplexer
and circulator loss, and 6 dB antenna gain?

a}  37.6 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.@@

b}  237 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

c}  150 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

d}  23.7 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.


35]  What is the effective radiated power of a repeater with
100 watts transmitter power output, 4 dB feedline loss, 3 dB
duplexer and circulator loss, and 7 dB antenna gain?

a}  631 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

b}  400 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

c}  25 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

d}  100 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.@@


36]  What is the effective radiated power of a repeater with
100 watts transmitter power output, 5 dB feedline loss, 4 dB
duplexer and circulator loss, and 10 dB antenna gain?

a}  800 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

b}  126 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.@@

c}  12.5 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

d}  1260 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.


37]  What is the effective radiated power of a repeater with
120 watts transmitter power output, 5 dB feedline loss, 4 dB
duplexer and circulator loss, and 6 dB antenna gain?

a}  601 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

b}  240 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

c}  60 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.@@

d}  379 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.


38]  What is the effective radiated power of a repeater with
150 watts transmitter power output, 4 dB feedline loss, 3 dB
duplexer and circulator loss, and 7 dB antenna gain?

a}  946 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

b}  37.5 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

c}  600 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

d}  150 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.@@


39]  What is the effective radiated power of a repeater with
200 watts transmitter power output, 4 dB feedline loss, 4 dB
duplexer and circulator loss, and 10 dB antenna gain?

a}  317 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.@@

b}  2000 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

c}  126 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

d}  260 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.


40]  What is the effective radiated power of a repeater with
200 watts transmitter power output, 4 dB feedline loss, 3 dB
duplexer and circulator loss, and 6 dB antenna gain?

a}  252 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

b}  63.2 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

c}  632 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.

d}  159 watts, assuming the antenna gain is referenced to a
half-wave dipole.@@


41]  What is the photoconductive effect?

a}  The conversion of photon energy to electromotive energy.

b}  The increased conductivity of an illuminated semiconductor
junction.@@

c}  The conversion of electromotive energy to photon energy.

d}  The decreased conductivity of an illuminated semiconductor
junction.


42]  What happens to photoconductive material when light shines
on it?

a}  The conductivity of the material increases.@@

b}  The conductivity of the material decreases.

c}  The conductivity of the material stays the same.

d}  The conductivity of the material becomes temperature
dependent.


43]  What happens to the resistance of a photoconductive
material when light shines on it?

a}  It increases.

b}  It becomes temperature dependent.

c}  It stays the same.

d}  It decreases.@@


44]  What happens to the conductivity of a semiconductor
junction when it is illuminated?

a}  It stays the same.

b}  It becomes temperature dependent.

c}  It increases.@@

d}  It decreases.


45]  What is an optocoupler?


a}  A resistor and a capacitor.

b}  A frequency modulated helium-neon laser.

c}  An amplitude modulated helium-neon laser.

d}  An LED and a phototransistor.@@


46]  What is an optoisolator?

a}  An LED and a phototransistor.@@

b}  A P-N junction that develops an excess positive charge when
exposed to light.

c}  An LED and a capacitor.

d}  An LED and a solar cell.


47]  What is an optical shaft encoder?

a}  An array of optocouplers chopped by a stationary wheel.

b}  An array of optocouplers whose light transmission path is
controlled by a rotating wheel.@@

c}  An array of optocouplers whose propagation velocity is
controlled by a stationary wheel.

d}  An array of optocouplers whose propagation velocity is
controlled by a rotating wheel.


48]  What does the photoconductive effect in crystalline solids
produce a noticeable change in?

a}  The capacitance of the solid.

b}  The inductance of the solid.

c}  The specific gravity of the solid.

d}  The resistance of the solid.@@


49]  What is the meaning of the term time constant of an RC
circuit?

a}  The time required to charge the capacitor in the circuit to
36.8% of the supply voltage.

b}  The time required to charge the capacitor in the circuit to
36.8% of the supply current.

c}  The time required to charge the capacitor in the circuit to
63.2% of the supply current.

d}  The time required to charge the capacitor in the circuit to
63.2% of the supply voltage.@@


50]  What is the meaning of the term time constant of an RL
circuit?

a}  The time required for the current in the circuit to build up
to 36.8% of  the maximum value.

b}  The time required for the voltage in the circuit to build up
to 63.2% of  the maximum value.

c}  The time required for the current in the circuit to build up
to 63.2% of  the maximum value.@@

d}  The time required for the voltage in the circuit to build up
to 36.8% of  the maximum value.


51]  What is the term for the time required for the capacitor
in an RC circuit to be charged to 63.2% of the supply voltage?

a}  An exponential rate of one.

b}  One time constant.@@

c}  One exponential period.

d}  A time factor of one.


52]  What is the term for the time required for the current in
an RL circuit to build up to 63.2% of  the maximum value?

a}  One time constant.@@

b}  An exponential period of one.

c}  A time factor of one.

d}  One exponential rate.


53]  What is the term for the time it takes for a charged
capacitor in an RC circuit to discharge to 36.8% of its initial
value of stored charge?

a}  One discharge period.

b}  An exponential discharge rate of one.

c}  A discharge factor of one.

d}  One time constant.@@


54]  What is meant by back EMF?

a}  A current equal to the applied EMF.

b}  An opposing EMF equal to R times C (RC) percent of the
applied EMF.

c}  A current that opposes the applied EMF.

d}  A voltage that opposes the applied EMF.@@


55]  After two time constants, the capacitor in an RC circuit
is charged to what percentage of the supply voltage?

a}  36.8%.

b}  63.2%.

c}  86.5%.@@

d}  95%.


56]  After two time constants, the capacitor in an RC circuit is
discharged to what percentage of the starting voltage?

a}  86.5%.

b}  63.2%.

c}  36.8%.

d}  13.5%.@@


57]  What is the time constant of a circuit having a
100-microfarad capacitor and a 470-kilohm resistor in series?

a}  4700 seconds.

b}  470 seconds.

c}  47 seconds.@@

d}  0.47 seconds.


58]  What is the time constant of a circuit having a
220-microfarad capacitor and a 1-megohm resistor in parallel?

a}  220 seconds.@@

b}  22 seconds.

c}  2.2 seconds.

d}  0.22 seconds.


59]  What is the time constant of a circuit having two
100-microfarad capacitors and two 470-kilohm resistors all in
series?

a}  470 seconds.

b}  47 seconds.@@

c}  4.7 seconds.

d}  0.47 seconds.


60]  What is the time constant of a circuit having two
100-microfarad capacitors and two 470-kilohm resistors all in
parallel?

a}  470 seconds.

b}  47 seconds.@@

c}  4.7 seconds.

d}  0.47 seconds.


61]  What is the time constant of a circuit having two
220-microfarad capacitors and two 1-megohm resistors all in
series?

a}  55 seconds.

b}  110 seconds.

c}  220 seconds.@@

d}  440 seconds.


62]  What is the time constant of a circuit having two
220-microfarad capacitors and two 1-megohm resistors all in
parallel?

a}  22 seconds.

b}  44 seconds.

c}  220 seconds.@@

d}  440 seconds.


63]  What is the time constant of a circuit having one
100-microfarad capacitor, one 220-microfarad capacitor, one
470-kilohm resistor and one 1-megohm resistor all in series?

a}  68.8 seconds.

b}  101.1 seconds.@@

c}  220.0 seconds.

d}  470.0 seconds.


64]  What is the time constant of a circuit having a
470-microfarad capacitor and a 1-megohm resistor in parallel?

a}  0.47 seconds.

b}  47 seconds.

c}  220 seconds.

d}  470 seconds.@@


65]  What is the time constant of a circuit having a
470-microfarad capacitor and a 470-kilohm resistor in series?

a}  221 seconds.@@

b}  221,000 seconds.

c}  470 seconds.

d}  470,000 seconds.


66]  What is the time constant of a circuit having a
220-microfarad capacitor and a 470-kilohm resistor in series?

a}  103 seconds.@@

b}  220 seconds.

c}  470 seconds.

d}  470,000 seconds.


67]  How long does it take for an initial charge of 20 V DC to
decrease to 7.36 V DC in a 0.01-microfarad capacitor when a
2-megohm resistor is connected across it?

a}  12.64 seconds.

b}  0.02 seconds.@@

c}  1 second.

d}  7.98 seconds.


68]  How long does it take for an initial charge of 20 V DC to
decrease to 2.71 V DC in a 0.01-microfarad capacitor when a
2-megohm resistor is connected across it?

a}  0.04 seconds.@@

b}  0.02 seconds.

c}  7.36 seconds.

d}  12.64 seconds.


69]  How long does it take for an initial charge of 20 V DC to
decrease to 1 V DC in a 0.01-microfarad capacitor when a 2-megohm
resistor is connected across it?

a}  0.01 seconds.

b}  0.02 seconds.

c}  0.04 seconds.

d}  0.06 seconds.@@


70]  How long does it take for an initial charge of 20 V DC to
decrease to 0.37 V DC in a 0.01-microfarad capacitor when a
2-megohm resistor is connected across it?

a}  0.08 seconds.@@

b}  0.6 seconds.

c}  0.4 seconds.

d}  0.2 seconds.


71]  How long does it take for an initial charge of 20 V DC to
decrease to 0.13 V DC in a 0.01-microfarad capacitor when a
2-megohm resistor is connected across it?

a}  0.06 seconds.

b}  0.08 seconds.

c}  0.1 seconds.@@

d}  1.2 seconds.


72]  How long does it take for an initial charge of 800 V DC to
decrease to 294 V DC in a 450-microfarad capacitor when a
1-megohm resistor is connected across it?

a}  80 seconds.

b}  294 seconds.

c}  368 seconds.

d}  450 seconds.@@


73]  How long does it take for an initial charge of 800 V DC to
decrease to 108 V DC in a 450-microfarad capacitor when a
1-megohm resistor is connected across it?

a}  225 seconds.

b}  294 seconds.

c}  450 seconds.

d}  900 seconds.@@


74]  How long does it take for an initial charge of 800 V DC to
decrease to 39.9 V DC in a 450-microfarad capacitor when a
1-megohm resistor is connected across it?

a}  1,350 seconds.@@

b}  900 seconds.

c}  450 seconds.

d}  225 seconds.


75]  How long does it take for an initial charge of 800 V DC to
decrease to 40.2 V DC in a 450-microfarad capacitor when a
1-megohm resistor is connected across it?

a}  Approximately 225 seconds.

b}  Approximately 450 seconds.

c}  Approximately 900 seconds.

d}  Approximately 1,350 seconds.@@


76]  How long does it take for an initial charge of 800 V DC to
decrease to 14.8 V DC in a 450-microfarad capacitor when a
1-megohm resistor is connected across it?

a}  Approximately 900 seconds.

b}  Approximately 1,350 seconds.

c}  Approximately 1,804 seconds.@@

d}  Approximately 2,000 seconds.


77]  What is the impedance of a network composed of a
0.1-microhenry inductor in series with a 20-ohm resistor, at 30
MHz?  (Specify your answer in rectangular coordinates.)

a}  20 + j19.@@

b}  20 - j19.

c}  19 + j20.

d}  19 - j20.


78]  What is the impedance of a network composed of a
0.1-microhenry inductor in series with a 30-ohm resistor, at 5
MHz?  (Specify your answer in rectangular coordinates.)

a}  30 - j3.

b}  30 + j3.@@

c}  3 + j30.

d}  3 - j30.


79]  What is the impedance of a network composed of a
10-microhenry inductor in series with a 40-ohm resistor, at 500
MHz?  (Specify your answer in rectangular coordinates.)

a}  40 + j31400.@@

b}  40 - j31400.

c}  31400 + j40.

d}  31400 - j40.


80]  What is the impedance of a network composed of a
0.001-microfarad capacitor in series with a 400-ohm resistor, at
500 kHz?  (Specify your answer in rectangular coordinates.)

a}  400 - j318.@@

b}  318 - j400.

c}  400 + j318.

d}  318 + j400.


81]  What is the impedance of a network composed of a
100-picofarad capacitor in parallel with a 4000-ohm resistor, at
500 kHz? (Specify your answer in polar coordinates.)

a}  2490 ohms, /51.5 degrees.

b}  4000 ohms, /38.5 degrees.

c}  5112 ohms, / -38.5 degrees.

d}  2490 ohms, /-51.5 degrees.@@


82]  What is the impedance of a network composed of a
100-ohm-reactance inductor in series with a 100-ohm resistor? 
(Specify your answer in polar coordinates.)

a}  121 ohms,  / 35 degrees.

b}  141 ohms,  / 45 degrees.@@

c}  161 ohms,  / 55 degrees.

d}  181 ohms,  / 65 degrees.


83]  A nickel-cadmium cell has an operating voltage of about:

a}  1.25 volts.@@

b}  1.4 volts.

c}  1.5 volts.

d}  2.1 volts.


84]  What is the impedance of a network composed of a
400-ohm-reactance capacitor in series with a 300-ohm resistor?
(Specify your answer in polar coordinates.)

a}  240 ohms,  / 36.9 degrees.

b}  240 ohms,  / -36.9 degrees.

c}  500 ohms,  / 53.1 degrees.

d}  500 ohms,  / -53.1 degrees.@@


85]  What is the impedance of a network composed of a
300-ohm-reactance capacitor, a 600-ohm-reactance inductor, and a
400-ohm resistor, all connected in series? (Specify your answer
in polar coordinates.)

a}  500 ohms,  / 37 degrees.@@

b}  400 ohms,  / 27 degrees.

c}  300 ohms,  / 17 degrees.

d}  200 ohms,  / 10 degrees.


86]  What is the impedance of a network composed of a
400-ohm-reactance inductor in parallel with a 300-ohm resistor?
(Specify your answer in polar coordinates.)

a}  240 ohms,  / 36.9 degrees.@@

b}  240 ohms,  / -36.9 degrees.

c}  500 ohms,  / 53.1 degrees.

d}  500 ohms,  / -53.1 degrees.


87]  What is the impedance of a network composed of a
1.0-millihenry inductor in series with a 200-ohm resistor, at 30
kHz?  (Specify your answer in rectangular coordinates.)

a}  200 - j188.

b}  200 + j188.@@

c}  188 + j200.

d}  188 - j200.


88]  What is the impedance of a network composed of a
0.01-microfarad capacitor in parallel with a 300-ohm resistor, at
50 kHz?  (Specify your answer in rectangular coordinates.)

a}  150 - j159.

b}  150 + j159.

c}  159 + j150.

d}  159 - j150.@@


89]  Which of the following components is used in a power
supply circuit to allow filter capacitors to discharge when power
is turned off and aids in holding the voltage output more
constant?

a}  Bleeder resistor.@@

b}  Multiplier resistor.

c}  Surge resistor.

d}  Rectifying diodes.


90]  A 1 watt, 10 volt zener diode with the following
characteristics: I min. = 5 mA, I max. = 95 mA, and Z = 8 ohms ;
is to be used as part of a voltage regulator. Approximately what
size current limiting resistor would set it's bias to the
midpoint of it's operating range?

a}  100 ohms.

b}  200 ohms.@@

c}  1 kilohms.

d}  2 kilohms.


91]  A 1 watt, 10 volt zener diode with the following
characteristics: I min. = 5 mA, I max. = 480 mA, and Z = 3 ohms;
is to be used as part of a voltage regulator. Approximately what
size current limiting resistor would set it's bias to the
midpoint of it's operating range?

a}  40 ohms.@@

b}  100 ohms.

c}  400 ohms.

d}  1 kilohms.


92]  A crowbar circuit is often added to a power supply to:

a}  Prevent the circuit protective devices from being damaged.

b}  Aide the filter section by increasing voltage regulation.

c}  Protect the power supply by allowing the load to have as
much current as it needs.

d}  Protect the load by activating circuit protective devices.@@


93]  Given a power supply with a no load voltage of 12 volts
and a full load voltage of 10 volts, what is the percentage of
voltage regulation?

a}  17 %.

b}  20 %.@@

c}  80 %.

d}  83 %.


94]  Given a power supply with a full load voltage of 200
volts and a regulation of 25%, what is the no load voltage?.

a}  150 volts.

b}  160 volts.

c}  240 volts.

d}  250 volts.@@


95]  Given a power supply with a no load voltage of 200 volts
and a regulation of 25 %, what is the full load voltage.


a}  150 volts.

b}  160 volts.@@

c}  240 volts.

d}  250 volts.


96]  A 50 microampere meter movement has an internal
resistance of 2 kilohms. What applied voltage is required to
indicate half-scale deflection?

a}  0.01 Volts.

b}  0.10 Volts.

c}  0.005 Volts.

d}  0.05 Volts.@@


97]  The expression 'voltage regulation' as it applies to a
shunt-wound DC generator operating at a constant frequency refers
to:

a}  Voltage output efficiency.

b}  Voltage in the secondary compared to the primary.

c}  Voltage fluctuations from load to no-load.@@

d}  Rotor winding voltage ratio.


98]  When an emergency transmitter uses 325 watts and a
receiver uses 50 watts, how many hours can a 12.6 volt, 55
ampere-hour battery supply full power to both units?

a}  6 hours.

b}  3 hours.

c}  1.8 hours.@@

d}  1.2 hours.


99]  The expression "voltage regulation" as it applies to a
generator operating at a constant frequency refers to:

a}  Full load to no load.@@

b}  Limited load to peak load.

c}  Source input supply frequency.

d}  Field frequency.


100]  The output of a separately excited AC generator running
at a constant speed can be controlled by:

a}  Armature.

b}  Brushes.

c}  Field current.@@

d}  Exciter.


101]  A transformer used to step up its input voltage must
have:

a}  More turns of wire on its primary than on its secondary.

b}  More turns of wire on its secondary than on its primary.@@

c}  Equal number of primary and secondary turns of wire.

d}  None of the above statements are correct.


102]  A transformer used to step down its input voltage must
have:

a}  More turns of wire on its primary than on its secondary.@@

b}  More turns of wire on its secondary than on its primary.

c}  Equal number of primary and secondary turns of wire.

d}  None of the above statements are correct.


103]  A 12.6 volt, 8 ampere-hour battery is supplying power to
a receiver that uses 50 watts and a radar system that uses 300
watts.  How long will the battery last?

a}  100.8 hours.

b}  27.7 hours.

c}  1 hour.

d}  17 minutes or 0.3 hours.@@


104]  What is the total voltage when 12 Nickel-Cadmium
batteries are connected in series?

a}  12 volts.

b}  12.6 volts.

c}  15 volts.@@

d}  72 volts.


105]  A ship radar unit uses 315 watts and a radio uses 50
watts.  If the  equipment is connected to a 50 ampere-hour
battery rated at 12.6 volts, how long will the battery last?

a}  28.97 hours.

b}  29 minutes.

c}  1 hour 43 minutes.@@

d}  10 hours 50 minutes.


106]  The turns ratio of a transformer is 1 : 20. When a 120
volt ac source is connected to its primary winding, the secondary
voltage is:

a}  120 Volts.

b}  1200 Volts.

c}  600 Volts.

d}  2400 Volts.@@


107]  There is an improper impedance match between a 30 watt
transmitter and the antenna and 5 watts is reflected. How much
power is actually radiated?

a}  35 watts.

b}  30 watts.

c}  25 watts.@@

d}  20 watts.


108]  How long will a 12.6 volt, 50 ampere-hour battery last if
it supplies power to an emergency transmitter rated at 531 watts
of plate input power and other emergency equipment with a
combined power rating of 530 watts?

a}  6 hours.

b}  4 hours.

c}  1 hour.

d}  35 minutes.@@


109]  A 12.6 volt, 55 ampere-hour battery is connected to a
radar unit rated at 325 watts and a receiver that uses 20 watts. 
How long will radar unit and receiver be able to draw full power
from the battery?

a}  6 hours.

b}  4 hours.

c}  2.3 hours.

d}  2 hours.@@


110]  A power transformer has a 120 volt primary winding and
a 24 volt secondary winding. What is its turns ratio (referenced secondary to primary)?

a}  10 : 1.

b}  1 : 10.

c}  5 : 1.

d}  1 : 5.@@


111]  A 6 volt battery with 1.2 ohms internal resistance is
connected across two 3 watt bulbs.  What is the current flow?

a}  .57 amps.

b}  .83 amps.@@

c}  1.0 amps.

d}  6.0 amps.


112]  A power transformer has a primary winding of 200 turns
of #24 wire and a secondary winding consisting of 500 turns of
the same size wire. When 20 volts is applied to the primary
winding, the expected secondary voltage is:

a}  500 Volts.

b}  25 Volts.

c}  10 Volts.

d}  50 Volts.@@


113]  The power input to a 52 ohm transmission line is 1,872
watts.  The current flowing through the line is:

a}  6 amps.@@

b}  144 amps.

c}  0.06 amps.

d}  28.7 amps.


114]  If a marine radiotelephone receiver uses 75 watts of power
and a transmitter uses 325 watts, how long can they both operate
before discharging a 50 ampere-hour 12 volt battery?

a}  40 minutes.

b}  1 hour.

c}  1 1/2 hours.@@

d}  6 hours.

115]  A power transformer has a single primary winding and
three secondary windings producing 5.0 volts, 12.6 volts, and 150
volts. Which of the three secondary windings will have the
highest measured DC resistance.

a}  The 12.6 volt winding.

b}  The 5.0 volt winding.

c}  The 150 volt winding.@@

d}  All will have equal resistance values.


116]  Which of the following list is correct for listing
common materials in order of descending conductivity:

a}  Silver, copper, aluminum, iron, and lead.@@

b}  Lead, iron, silver, aluminum, and copper.


c}  Iron, silver, aluminum, copper, and silver.

d}  Silver, aluminum, iron, lead, and copper.


117]  Under what condition may gas be a good conductor?

a}  When placed in an isotropic radiator.

b}  When subjected to a vacuum.

c}  When ionized.@@

d}  When placed in a Leclanche' cell.


118]  Ship's power is generated 3-phase, ungrounded. On a
delta-wound transformer with 120 Vac line-to-line secondary, the
voltmeter reading from line to ground is:

a}  Approximately 67 Vac for a normal balanced system with no
faults.

b}  0 Vac for a system with that phase faulted to ground.

c}  120 Vac when another phase is faulted to ground.

d}  None of these.@@


119]  The product of the number of turns and the current in
amperes used to describe relative magnitude is:

a}  Ampere turns.@@

b}  Joules per second.

c}  Push-pull convergence.

d}  Dissipation collection.


120]  The factor by which the product of volts and amperes
must be multiplied to obtain true power is:

a}  Apparent power.

b}  Power factor.@@

c}  Phase angle.

d}  Power angle.



121]  Halving the cross-sectional area of a conductor will:

a}  Not affect the resistance.

b}  Quarter the resistance.

c}  Half the resistance.

d}  Double the resistance.@@


122]  If a resistance to which a constant voltage is applied
is halved, what power dissipation will result?

a}  Doubled.@@

b}  Halved.

c}  Quadrupled.

d}  Stay the same.


123]  The effective value of an RF current and the heating
value of the current are:

a}  Effective value divided by two equals the heating value.

b}  Effective value multiplied by two equals the heating value.

c}  The sum of the value of the divided parts multiplied by two
equals.

d}  The same.@@


124]  746 watts, roughly 3/4 kilowatt corresponding to the
lifting of 550 pounds at the rate of one foot per second is:

a}  Quarter of a horsepower.

b}  Half of a horsepower.

c}  3/4 of a horsepower.

d}  One horsepower.@@


125]  Assuming a power source to have a fixed value of
internal impedance, maximum power will be transferred to the load
when:

a}  The load impedance equals the internal impedance of the
source.@@

b}  The load impedance is greater than the source impedance.

c}  The load impedance is less than the source impedance.

d}  The fixed values of internal impedance is not relative to the
power source.


126]  What is the conductance (G) of a circuit if 6 amperes
of current flows when 12 Vdc is applied?

a}  0.25 siemens(mho).

b}  0.50 siemens(mho).@@

c}  1.00 siemens(mho).

d}  1.25 siemens(mho).


127]  If the voltage to a circuit is doubled and the
resistance is tripled, what will be the final current?

a}  1/3 the original current.

b}  2/3 the original current.@@

c}  1 1/3 the original current.

d}  Double the original current.


128]  A relay coil has 500 ohms resistance, and operates on
125 mA. What value of resistance should be connected in series
with it to operate from 110 Vdc?

a}  150 ohms.

b}  220 ohms.

c}  380 ohms.@@

d}  470 ohms.


129]  How many capacitors of 400 volts and 2.0 microfarads each
would be necessary to obtain a combination rated at 1600 volts
and 1.5 microfarads?

a}  10.

b}  12.@@

c}  14.

d}  16.


130]  The total inductance of two coils in parallel without
any mutual coupling is:

a}  Equal to the product of the two inductances divided by their
sum.@@

b}  Equal to the sum of the individual inductances.

c}  Equal to zero.

d}  Equal to the sum of the individual inductances divided by
their product.


131]  Permeability is:

a}  The magnetic field created by a conductor wound on a
laminated core and carrying current.

b}  The ratio of magnetic flux density in a substance to the
magnetizing force that produces it.@@

c}  Polarized molecular alignment in a ferromagnetic material
while under the influence of a magnetizing force.

d}  None of these.


132]  What is the total impedance of a series AC circuit
having a resistance of 6 ohms, an inductive reactance of 17 ohms,
and zero capacitive reactance?

a}  6.6 ohms.

b}  11 ohms.

c}  18 ohms.@@

d}  23 ohms.


133]  The opposition to the creation of magnetic lines of
force in a magnetic circuit is known as:

a}  Eddy currents.

b}  Hysterisis.

c}  Permeability.

d}  Reluctance.@@


134]  Why is a center tap usually provided for vacuum tube
plate and grid return circuits when an AC filament supply is
used?

a}  To prevent hum voltage from modulating the normal signals.@@

b}  To allow more filament current.

c}  All of these.

d}  None of these.


135]  Given the following vacuum tube constants: Gp = 1000V,
Ip = 150 mA, Ig = 10 mA, and grid leak = 5000 ohms; What would
be the grid bias voltage?

a}  25 V.

b}  50 V.@@

c}  100 V.

d}  None of these.


136]  A special type of power supply filter choke whose
inductance is inversely proportional to the amount of current
flowing through it is a:

a}  AF choke.

b}  RF choke.

c}  Smoothing choke.

d}  Swinging choke.@@


137]  What turn ratio does a transformer need to match a
source impedance of 500 ohms to a load of 10 ohms.

a}  7.1 to 1.@@

b}  14.2 to 1.

c}  50 to 1.

d}  None of these.


138]  What is the DC plate voltage of a resistance-coupled
amplifier stage with a plate-supply voltage of 260 V, a plate
current of 1 mA, and a plate load resistance of 100 kilohms.

a}  60 volts.

b}  100 volts.

c}  160 volts.@@

d}  220 volts.


139]  The average fully charged voltage of an Edison storage
cell is:

a}  1 volt.

b}  1.2 volts.@@

c}  1.5 volts.

d}  2 volts.


140]  The average fully charged voltage of a lead-acid
storage cell is:

a}  1 volt.

b}  1.2 volts.

c}  1.56 volts.

d}  2.06 volts.@@


141]  A battery with a terminal voltage of 12.5 volts is to
be trickle-charged at a 0.5 A rate. What resistance should be
connected in series with the battery to charge it from a 110 Vdc
line?

a}  95 ohms.

b}  195 ohms.@@

c}  300 ohms.

d}  None of these.


142]  A discharged storage cell of 3 cells has an
open-circuit voltage of 1.8 volts per cell and an internal
resistance of 0.1 ohms per cell. What voltage is needed to give
an initial charging rate of 10 A?

a}  8.4 volts.@@

b}  10 volts.

c}  12.5 volts.

d}  15 volts.


143]  What capacity in amperes does a storage battery need to
be in order to operate a 50 watt transmitter for 6 hours? Assume
a continuous transmitter load of 70% of the key-locked demand of
40 A, and an emergency light load of 1.5 A?

a}  100 ampere-hours.

b}  177 ampere-hours.@@

c}  249 ampere-hours.

d}  None of these.


144]  What current will flow in a 6 volt storage battery with
an internal resistance of 0.01 ohms, when a 3 watt, 6 volt lamp
is connected?

a}  0.4885 amps.

b}  0.4995 amps.@@

c}  0.5566 amps.

d}  0.5795 amps.


145]  What is the ratio of the output frequency to the input
frequency of a single-phase full-wave rectifier?

a}  1 : 1.

b}  1 : 2.

c}  2 : 1.@@

d}  None of these.


146]  A capacitor is sometimes placed in series with the
primary of a power transformer to:

a}  Improve the power factor.@@

b}  Improve output voltage regulation.

c}  To rectify the primary windings.

d}  None of these.


147]  What is the maximum allowable secondary voltage of a
center-tapped transformer used in a full-wave rectifier with
tubes having a peak inverse voltage rating of 10,000 volts?

a}  5,000 volts.

b}  7,070 volts.@@

c}  10,000 volts.

d}  14,140 volts.


148]  A 3 horsepower, 100 Vdc motor is 85% efficient when
developing its rated output. What is the current?

a}  8.545 amps.

b}  20.345 amps.

c}  26.300 amps.@@

d}  25.000 amps.


149]  What is the line current of a 7 horsepower motor
operating on 120 volts at full load, a power factor of 0.8, and
95% efficient?

a}  4.72 amps.

b}  13.03 amps.

c}  56 amps.

d}  57.2 amps.@@


150]  The second harmonic of a 380 kHz frequency is:

a} 2.

b}  190 kHz.

c}  760 kHz.@@

d}  144.4 GHz.


151]  In a self-biased RF amplifier stage: plate voltage =
1250 volts, plate current = 150 mA, grid current = 15 mA, and
grid-leak resistance = 4000 ohms. What is the operating grid bias
voltage?

a}  30 volts.

b}  60 volts.@@

c}  187.5 volts.

d}  540 volts.


152]  What would be the dB change in field intensity at a
given distance if the transmitter output power is doubled?

a}  1.5 dB.@@

b}  6 dB.

c}  2 dB.

d}  3 dB.


153]  If a field strength is 100 microvolts per meter at 100
miles, what is the field strength at 200 miles?

a}  10 microvolts.

b}  25 microvolts.

c}  50 microvolts.@@

d}  150 microvolts.


154]  What is the purpose of a multiplier resistor used with
a voltmeter?

a}  A multiplier resistor is not used with a voltmeter.

b}  It is used to increase the voltage indicating range of the
voltmeter.@@

c}  It is used to decrease the voltage indicating range of the
voltmeter.


d}  It is used to increase the current indicating range of an
ammeter not a voltmeter.


155]  What is the purpose of a shunt resistor used with an
ammeter?

a}  A shunt resistor is not used with an ammeter.

b}  It is used to increase the ampere indicating range of the
ammeter.@@

c}  It is used to decrease the ampere indicating range of the
ammeter.

d}  It is used to increase the voltage indicating range of the
voltmeter not the ammeter.


156]  The product of the readings of an ac voltmeter and ac
ammeter is called:

a}  Apparent power.@@

b}  True power.

c}  Power factor.

d}  Current power.


157]  An ac ammeter indicates:

a}  Effective (TRM) values of current.

b}  Effective (RMS) values of current.@@

c}  Peak values of current.

d}  Average values of current.


158]  How may the range of a thermocouple ammeter be
increased?

a}  By using a current transformer.

b}  By using a capacitor shunt.

c}  By using a current transformer and a capacitor shunt.@@

d}  By using a resistor shunt.



159]  By what factor must the voltage of an ac circuit, as
indicated on the scale of an ac voltmeter, be multiplied to
obtain the average voltage value?

a}  0.707.

b}  0.9.@@

c}  1.414.

d}  3.14.


160]  By what factor must the voltage of an ac circuit, as
indicated on the scale of an ac voltmeter, be multiplied to
obtain the peak voltage value?

a}  0.707.

b}  0.9.

c}  1.414.@@

d}  3.14.


161]  What is the energy consumed by a radio receiver drawing
50 watts of power for 10 hours?

a}  500 joules.

b}  30000 joules.

c}  1800000 joules.@@

d}  30000 Ws.


162]  What is the maximum rated current-carrying capacity of
a resistor marked "2000 ohms, 200 watts"?

a}  .316 amps.@@

b}  3.16 amps.

c}  10 amps.

d}  100 amps.


163]  A radio receiver rated at 50 watts draws 1.5 amps from
the line. The effective resistance is:

a}  8.66 ohms.

b}  22.2 ohms.@@

c}  33.3 ohms.

d}  1.11 kilohms.


164]  What is the maximum voltage that may be connected
across a 20 watt, 2000 ohm resistor?

a}  10 volts.

b}  100 volts.

c}  200 volts.@@

d}  10,000 volts.


165]  What is the resistance of a 60 watt, 117 volt lamp?

a}  1.95 ohms.

b}  2.76 ohms.

c}  30.8 ohms.

d}  228 ohms.@@


166]  How much energy is used in a week by a 117 volt clock
having an internal resistance of 5000 ohms?

a}  19.2 watt-hours.

b}  134 watt-hours.

c}  460 watt-hours.@@

d}  27.6 kilowatt-hours.


167]  If.8 coulombs pass a point in a circuit in.8 seconds,
what is the average current value?

a}  1 ampere.@@

b}  .640 amperes.

c}  1.28 amperes.

d}  .414 amperes.


168]  How much power is developed when 117 volts forces 11.7
coulombs through a point in a circuit in 1.17 seconds?

a}  8.55 watts.

b}  11.7 watts.

c}  1.17 k watts.@@

d}  1.6 kilowatts.


169]  A 20 ohm, a 30 ohm, and an unknown-value resistor are
connected in series across a 140 volt source with.5 amps flowing
through the circuit. What is the unknown resistor's size?

a}  40 ohms.

b}  90 ohms.

c}  115 ohms.

d}  230 ohms.@@


170]  A 12 volt automotive battery with an internal
resistance of.2 ohms is connected to a 2 ohm headlight lamp.
What is the amount of current passing through the lamp?

a}  1.2 amperes.

b}  5.45 amperes.@@

c}  6 amperes.

d}  None of these.


171]  What is the conductance of circuit having three 300 ohm
and two 200 ohm resistors connected in parallel?

a}  20 mS.@@

b}  50 ohms.

c}  8.33 mS.

d}  120 ohms.


172]  A 500 ohm, 2 watt resistor and a 1500 ohm, 1 watt
resistor are connected in parallel. What is the maximum voltage
that can be applied across the parallel circuit without exceeding
wattage ratings?

a}  22.4 volts.

b}  31.6 volts.@@ 

c}  38.7 volts.

d}  875 volts.


173]  A 20 ohm and 30 ohm resistor form a parallel circuit
connected to a 12 volt source with an internal resistance of.2
ohms. Which of the following correctly represents Kirchoff's
voltage laws for the circuit in question assuming A is the current through the 30 ohm resistor
and B is the current through the 20 ohm resistor?

a}  12-.2A-20A-30B=0.

b}  12-.2A-20B=0.

c}  12-.2A-30A=0.

d}  12-.2A-20B=0 and 12-.2A-30A=0.@@


174]  If a complex circuit is reduced to an equivalent
circuit consisting of a single voltage source in series with a
single resistor, this is an example of:

a}  Norton's theorem.

b}  Thevenin's theorem.@@

c}  Ohm's law.

d}  Kirchoff's law.


175]  If a complex circuit is reduced to an equivalent
circuit consisting of a single current source in parallel with a
single resistor, this is an example of:

a}  Norton's theorem.@@

b}  Thevenin's theorem.

c}  Ohm's law.

d}  Kirchoff's law.


176]  If a 20 ohm resistor, a 30 ohm resistor, and a 12 volt
source with an internal resistance of 2 ohms are connected in a
parallel circuit arrangement, how much current will flow from the
source?

a}  0.240 amperes.

b}  0.857 amperes.@@

c}  0.750 amperes.

d}  1.000 amperes.


177]  If a current flowing through a coil produces 200 lines
of force in the core of the coil it can be said that the core
has:

a}  Flux of 14.14 lines.

b}  Flux of 100 lines.

c}  200 gauss.

d}  200 maxwells.@@


178]  If the core of a coil is 2 centimeters squared and has
200 lines of force in the core, it can be said that the core has:

a}  Flux of 100.

b}  Flux of 400.

c}  100 gauss.@@

d}  100 maxwells.


179]  If a 50 turn coil has 2 amperes of current flowing
through it, one can say it has:

a}  79.6 gilberts.@@

b}  100 flux.

c}  100 gauss.

d}  79.6 oersted.


180]  If a 50 turn coil has 2 amperes of current flowing
through it and a core length of 2 inches, one can say it has:

a}  24.75 gilberts.

b}  24.75 flux.


c}  24.75 gauss.

d}  24.75 oersted.@@


181]  In comparing an electric circuit with a magnetic
circuit, volts is similar to ____, resistance is similar to ____,
and  amperes is similar to ____.

a}  Gilberts, reluctance, maxwells.@@

b}  Reluctance, gilberts, maxwells.

c}  Gilberts, maxwells, reluctance.

d}  Maxwell, reluctance, gilberts.


182]  When magnetic lines are cut at a rate of ____ lines per
second, an average EMF of 1 volt is produced.

a}  10,000.

b}  100,000.

c}  10,000,000.

d}  100,000,000.@@


183]  Which of the following would shield a permanent-magnet
field best?

a}  Copper.

b}  Iron.@@

c}  Lead.

d}  Aluminum.


184]  When induced currents produce expanding magnetic fields
around conductors in a direction that opposes the original
magnetic field, this is known as:

a}  Gilbert's law.

b}  Lenz's law.@@

c}  Maxwells' law.

d}  Norton's law.


185]  At 240 degrees, what is the amplitude of sine-wave having a peak value of 5 volts?

a}  -4.3 volts.@@

b}  -2.5 volts.

c}  +2.5 volts.

d}  +4.3 volts.


186]  At 150 degrees, what is the amplitude of a sine-wave having a peak value of 5 volts?

a}  -4.3 volts.

b}  -2.5 volts.

c}  +2.5 volts.@@

d}  +4.3 volts.


187]  At pi/3 radius, what is the amplitude of a sine-wave having a peak value of 5 volts?

a}  -4.3 volts.

b}  -2.5 volts.

c}  +2.5 volts.

d}  +4.3 volts.@@


188]  If 4 amperes of current is flowing at 60 degrees, how
much will flow at 150 degrees?

a}  2.0 amperes.

b}  2.3 amperes.@@

c}  3.5 amperes.

d}  4.0 amperes.


189]  If 4 amperes of current is flowing at 30 degrees, how
much will flow at 120 degrees?

a}  2.3 amperes.

b}  4.0 amperes.

c}  6.9 amperes.@@

d}  8.0 amperes.


190]  The frequency that is 2 octaves higher than 1000 Hz is:

a}  2000 Hz.

b}  3000 Hz.

c}  4000 Hz.@@

d}  5000 Hz.


191]  Which of  the following would be considered a
transducer?

a}  Light emitting diode.

b}  Vacuum tube filament.

c}  Speaker.

d}  Microphone.@@


192]  What is the inductance in microhenries of a coil having
a diameter of 1/2 inch, a length of 1 inch, and 200 turns?

a}  25 microhenries.

b}  204 microhenries.@@

c}  305 microhenries.

d}  503 microhenries.


193]  If a 10 henry coil has 50 mA of current flowing through
it, how much energy is stored in the magnetic field?

a}  0.0125 Joules.@@

b}  12.5 Joules.

c}  0.500 Joules.

d}  500 Joules.


194]  If two coils are close enough to have a mutual
inductance of.2 H and the coils have inductances of 2 H and 8 H,
what is the coefficient of coupling?

a}  2.5 %.

b}  5.0 %.@@

c}  10 %.

d}  25 %.


195]  If a power transformer has a primary voltage of 120
Vac, a secondary voltage of  12 volts, and an efficiency of 95 %
when delivering 2 amperes of secondary current, what is the value
of primary current?

a}  190 milliamperes.

b}  200 milliamperes.

c}  211 milliamperes.@@

d}  2 amperes.


196]  What is the capacitance of a capacitor with individual
plate area of 2 square inches each, an air dielectric, and
spacing between the two parallel plates of.01 inches?

a}  45 picofarads.@@

b}  45 microfarads.

c}  200 picofarads.

d}  200 microfarads.


197]  What is the capacitance of a capacitor with individual
plate area of 1 square inch each, an air dielectric, and spacing
between the two parallel plates of.01 inches?


a}  2.25 picofarads.

b}  22.5 picofarads.@@

c}  2.25 microfarads.

d}  22.5 microfarads.


198]  Which of the following materials has a dielectric
strength of approximately 80 volts?

a}  Air.@@

b}  Bakelite.

c}  Glass.

d}  Mica.


199]  The electron difference between the plates of a 5
microfarad capacitor connected to 10 Vdc will be:

a}  0.000005 coulombs.

b}  0.00005  coulombs.@@

c}  31.2 Terra electrons.

d}  3.12 Terra electrons.


200]  If a series circuit consist of an inductor with an
inductive reactance of 57.7 ohms and a resistance of 100 ohms,
the phase angle between voltage and current will be
approximately:

a}  30 degrees.@@

b}  35 degrees.

c}  55 degrees.

d}  60 degrees.


201]  If a series circuit consist of an inductor with an
inductive reactance of 100 ohms and a resistance of 57.7 ohms,
the phase angle between voltage and current will be
approximately:

a}  30 degrees.


b}  35 degrees.

c}  55 degrees.

d}  60 degrees.@@


202]  Approximately what capacitance value is needed to
resonate a 2.5 millihenry coil to 2.146 MHz?

a}  2.2 picofarads.@@

b}  2.2 microfarads.

c}  87 picofarads.

d}  87 microfarads.