Subelement 3G -- Signals and emissions.


1]  What is emission A3C?

a}  Facsimile.@@

b}  RTTY.

c}  ATV.

d}  Slow Scan TV.


2]  What type of emission is produced when an amplitude
modulated transmitter is modulated by a facsimile signal?

a}  A3F.

b}  A3C.@@

c}  F3F.

d}  F3C.


3]  What is emission F3C?

a}  Voice transmission.

b}  Slow Scan TV.

c}  RTTY.

d}  Facsimile.@@


4]  What type of emission is produced when a frequency
modulated transmitter is modulated by a facsimile signal?

a}  F3C.@@

b}  A3C.

c}  F3F.

d}  A3F.


5]  What is emission A3F?

a}  RTTY.

b}  Television.@@

c}  SSB.

d}  Modulated CW.


6]  What type of emission is produced when an amplitude
modulated transmitter is modulated by a television signal?

a}  F3F.

b}  A3F.@@

c}  A3C.

d}  F3C.


7]  What is emission F3F?

a}  Modulated CW.

b}  Facsimile.

c}  RTTY.

d}  Television.@@


8]  What type of emission is produced when a frequency
modulated transmitter is modulated by a television signal?

a}  A3F.

b}  A3C.

c}  F3F.@@

d}  F3C.


9]  How can an FM-phone signal be produced?

a}  By modulating the supply voltage to a class-B amplifier.

b}  By modulating the supply voltage to a class-C amplifier.

c}  By using a reactance modulator on an oscillator.@@

d}  By using a balanced modulator on an oscillator.


10]  How can a double-sideband phone signal be produced?

a}  By using a reactance modulator on an oscillator.

b}  By varying the voltage to the varactor in an oscillator
circuit.

c}  By using a phase detector, oscillator, and filter in a
feedback loop.

d}  By modulating the plate supply voltage to a class C
amplifier.@@


11]  How can a single-sideband phone signal be produced?

a}  By producing a double sideband signal with a balanced
modulator and then removing the unwanted sideband by filtering.@@

b}  By producing a double sideband signal with a balanced
modulator and then removing the unwanted sideband by heterodyning.

c}  By producing a double sideband signal with a balanced
modulator and then removing the unwanted sideband by mixing.

d}  By producing a double sideband signal with a balanced
modulator and then removing the unwanted sideband by
neutralization.


12]  What is meant by the term deviation ratio?

a} The ratio of the audio modulating frequency to the center
carrier frequency.

b}  The ratio of the maximum carrier frequency deviation to the
highest audio modulating frequency.@@

c}  The ratio of the carrier center frequency to the audio
modulating frequency.

d}  The ratio of the highest audio modulating frequency to the
average audio modulating frequency.


13]  In an FM-phone signal, what is the term for the maximum
deviation from the carrier frequency divided by the maximum audio
modulating frequency?

a}  Deviation index.

b}  Modulation index.

c}  Deviation ratio.@@

d}  Modulation ratio.


14]  What is the deviation ratio for an FM-phone signal having
a maximum frequency swing of plus or minus 5 kHz and accepting a
maximum modulation rate of 3 kHz?

a}  60.

b}  0.16.

c}  0.6.

d}  1.66.@@


15]  What is the deviation ratio of an FM-phone signal having a
maximum frequency swing of plus or minus 7.5 kHz and accepting a
maximum modulation rate of 3.5 kHz?

a}  2.14.@@

b}  0.214.

c}  0.47.

d}  47.


16]  What is meant by the term modulation index?

a}  The processor index.

b}  The ratio between the deviation of a frequency modulated
signal and the modulating frequency.@@

c}  The FM signal-to-noise ratio.

d}  The ratio of the maximum carrier frequency deviation to the
highest audio modulating frequency.


17]  In an FM-phone signal, what is the term for the ratio
between the deviation of the frequency-modulated signal and the
modulating frequency?

a}  FM compressibility.

b}  Quieting index.

c}  Percentage of modulation.

d}  Modulation index.@@


18]  How does the modulation index of a phase-modulated
emission vary with the modulated frequency?

a}  The modulation index increases as the RF carrier frequency
(the modulated frequency) increases.

b}  The modulation index decreases as the RF carrier frequency
(the modulated frequency) increases.

c}  The modulation index varies with the square root of the RF
carrier frequency (the modulated frequency).

d}  The modulation index does not depend on the RF carrier
frequency (the modulated frequency).@@


19]  In an FM-phone signal having a maximum frequency deviation
of 3.0 kHz either side of the carrier frequency, what is the
modulation index when the modulating frequency is 1.0 kHz?

a}  3.@@

b}  0.3.

c}  3000.

d}  1000.


20]  What is the modulation index of an FM-phone transmitter
producing an instantaneous carrier deviation of 6 kHz when
modulated with a 2 kHz modulating frequency?

a}  6000.

b}  3.@@

c}  2000.

d}  1/3.


21]  What are electromagnetic waves?

a}  Alternating currents in the core of an electromagnet.

b}  A wave consisting of two electric fields at right angles to
each other.

c}  A wave consisting of an electric field and a magnetic field
at right angles to each other.@@

d}  A wave consisting of two magnetic fields at right angles to
each other.


22]  What is a wave front?

a}  A voltage pulse in a conductor.

b}  A current pulse in a conductor.

c}  A voltage pulse across a resistor.

d}  A fixed point in an electromagnetic wave.@@


23]  At what speed do electromagnetic waves travel in free
space?

a}  Approximately 300 million meters per second.@@

b}  Approximately 468 million meters per second.

c}  Approximately 186,300 feet per second.

d}  Approximately 300 million miles per second.


24]  What are the two interrelated fields considered to make up
an electromagnetic wave?

a}  An electric field and a current field.

b}  An electric field and a magnetic field.@@

c}  An electric field and a voltage field.

d}  A voltage field and a current field.


25]  Why do electromagnetic waves not penetrate a good
conductor to any great extent?

a}  The electromagnetic field induces currents in the insulator.

b}  The oxide on the conductor surface acts as a shield.

c}  Because of Eddy currents.@@

d}  The resistivity of the conductor dissipates the field.


26]  What is meant by referring to electromagnetic waves as
horizontally polarized?

a}  The electric field is parallel to the earth.@@

b}  The magnetic field is parallel to the earth.

c}  Both the electric and magnetic fields are horizontal.

d}  Both the electric and magnetic fields are vertical.


27]  What is meant by referring to electromagnetic waves as
having circular polarization?

a}  The electric field is bent into a circular shape.

b}  The electric field rotates.@@

c}  The electromagnetic wave continues to circle the earth.

d}  The electromagnetic wave has been generated by a quad antenna.


28]  When the electric field is perpendicular to the surface of
the earth, what is the polarization of the electromagnetic wave?

a}  Circular.

b}  Horizontal.

c}  Vertical.@@

d}  Elliptical.


29]  When the magnetic field is parallel to the surface of the
earth, what is the polarization of the electromagnetic wave?

a}  Circular.

b}  Horizontal.

c}  Elliptical.

d}  Vertical.@@


30]  When the magnetic field is perpendicular to the surface of
the earth, what is the polarization of the electromagnetic field?

a}  Horizontal.@@

b}  Circular.

c}  Elliptical.

d}  Vertical.


31]  When the electric field is parallel to the surface of the
earth, what is the polarization of the electromagnetic wave?

a}  Vertical.

b}  Horizontal.@@

c}  Circular.

d}  Elliptical.


32]  What is a sine wave?

a}  A constant-voltage, varying-current wave.

b}  A wave whose amplitude at any given instant can be
represented by a point on a wheel rotating at a uniform speed.@@

c}  A wave following the laws of the trigonometric tangent
function.

d}  A wave whose polarity changes in a random manner.


33]  If a sine wave begins from above or below the zero axis,
how many times will it  cross the zero axis in one complete
cycle?

a}  180 times.

b}  4 times.

c}  2 times.@@

d}  360 times.


34]  How many degrees are there in one complete sine wave
cycle?

a}  90 degrees.

b}  270 degrees.

c}  180 degrees.

d}  360 degrees.@@


35]  What is the period of a wave?

a}  The time required to complete one cycle.@@

b}  The number of degrees in one cycle.

c}  The number of zero crossings in one cycle.

d}  The amplitude of the wave.


36]  What is a square wave?

a}  A wave with only 300 degrees in one cycle.

b}  A wave that abruptly changes back and forth between two
voltage levels and which remains an equal time at each level.@@

c}  A wave that makes four zero crossings per cycle.

d}  A wave in which the positive and negative excursions occupy
unequal portions of the cycle time.


37]  What is a wave called which abruptly changes back and
forth between two voltage levels and which remains an equal time
at each level?

a}  A sine wave.

b}  A cosine wave.

c}  A square wave.@@

d}  A rectangular wave.


38]  Which sine waves make up a square wave?

a}  0.707 times the fundamental frequency.

b}  The fundamental frequency and all odd and even harmonics.

c}  The fundamental frequency and all even harmonics.

d}  The fundamental frequency and all odd harmonics.@@


39]  What type of wave is made up of sine waves of the
fundamental frequency and all the odd harmonics?

a}  Square wave.@@

b}  Sine wave.

c}  Cosine wave.

d}  Tangent wave.


40]  What is a sawtooth wave?

a}  A wave that alternates between two values and spends an equal
time at each level.

b}  A wave with a straight line rise time faster than the fall
time (or vice versa).@@

c}  A wave that produces a phase angle tangent to the unit circle.

d}  A wave whose amplitude at any given instant can be
represented by a point on a wheel rotating at a uniform speed.


41]  What type of wave is characterized by a rise time
significantly faster than the fall time (or vice versa)?

a}  A cosine wave.

b}  A square wave.

c}  A sawtooth wave.@@

d}  A sine wave.


42]  Which sine waves make up a sawtooth wave?

a}  The fundamental frequency and all prime harmonics.

b}  The fundamental frequency and all even harmonics.

c}  The fundamental frequency and all odd harmonics.

d}  The fundamental frequency and all harmonics.@@


43]  What type of wave is made up of sine waves at the
fundamental frequency and all the harmonics?

a}  A sawtooth wave.@@

b}  A square wave.

c}  A sine wave.

d}  A cosine wave.


44]  What is the meaning of the term, root mean square value of
an AC voltage?

a}  The value of an AC voltage found by squaring the average
value of the peak AC voltage.

b}  The value of a DC voltage that would cause the same heating
effect in a given resistor as a peak AC voltage.

c}  The value of an AC voltage that would cause the same heating
effect in a given resistor as a DC voltage of the same value.@@

d}  The value of an AC voltage found by taking the square root of
the average AC value.


45]  What is the term used in reference to a DC voltage that
would cause the same heating in a resistor as a certain value of
AC voltage?

a}  Cosine voltage.

b}  Power factor.

c}  Root mean square.@@

d}  Average voltage.


46]  What would be the most accurate way of determining the RMS
voltage of a complex waveform?

a}  By using a grid dip meter.

b}  By measuring the voltage with a D'Arsonval meter.

c}  By using an absorption wavemeter.

d}  By measuring the heating effect in a known resistor.@@


47]  What is the RMS voltage at a common household electrical
power outlet?

a}  117-V AC.@@

b}  331-V AC.

c}  82.7-V AC.

d}  165.5-V AC.


48]  What is the peak voltage at a common household electrical
outlet?

a}  234 volts.

b}  165.5 volts.@@

c}  117 volts.

d}  331 volts.


49]  What is the peak-to-peak voltage at a common household
electrical outlet?

a}  234 volts.

b}  117 volts.

c}  331 volts.@@

d}  165.5 volts.


50]  What is RMS voltage of a 165-volt peak pure sine wave?

a}  233-V AC.

b}  330-V AC.

c}  58.3-V AC.

d}  117-V AC.@@


51]  What is the RMS value of a 331-volt peak-to-peak pure sine
wave?

a}  117-V AC.@@

b}  165-V AC.

c}  234-V AC.

d}  300-V AC.


52]  For many types of voices, what is the ratio of PEP to
average power during a modulation peak in a single-sideband phone
signal?

a}  Approximately 1.0 to 1.

b}  Approximately 25 to 1.

c}  Approximately 2.5 to 1.@@

d}  Approximately 100 to 1.


53]  In a single-sideband phone signal, what determines the
PEP-to-average power ratio?

a}  The frequency of the modulating signal.

b}  The degree of carrier suppression.

c}  The speech characteristics.@@

d}  The amplifier power.


54]  What is the approximate DC input power to a Class B RF
power amplifier stage in an FM-phone transmitter when the PEP
output power is 1500 watts?

a}  Approximately 900 watts.

b}  Approximately 1765 watts.

c}  Approximately 2500 watts.@@

d}  Approximately 3000 watts.


55]  What is the approximate DC input power to a Class C RF
power amplifier stage in a RTTY transmitter when the PEP output
power is 1000 watts?

a}  Approximately 850 watts.

b}  Approximately 1250 watts.@@

c}  Approximately 1667 watts.

d}  Approximately 2000 watts.


57]  Where is the noise generated which primarily determines
the signal-to-noise ratio in a VHF (150 MHz) marine band
receiver?

a}  In the receiver front end.@@

b}  Man-made noise.

c}  In the atmosphere.

d}  In the ionosphere.


58]  In a pulse-width modulation system, what parameter does
the modulating signal vary?

a}  Pulse duration.@@

b}  Pulse frequency.

c}  Pulse amplitude.

d}  Pulse intensity.


59]  What is the type of modulation in which the modulating
signal varies the duration of the transmitted pulse?

a}  Amplitude modulation.

b}  Frequency modulation.

c}  Pulse-width modulation.@@

d}  Pulse-height modulation.


60]  In a pulse-position modulation system, what parameter does
the modulating signal vary?

a}  The number of pulses per second.

b}  Both the frequency and amplitude of the pulses.

c}  The duration of the pulses.

d}  The time at which each pulse occurs.@@


61]  Why is the transmitter peak power in a pulse modulation
system much greater than its average power?

a}  The signal duty cycle is less than 100%.@@

b}  The signal reaches peak amplitude only when voice modulated.

c}  The signal reaches peak amplitude only when voltage spikes
are generated within the modulator.

d}  The signal reaches peak amplitude only when the pulses are
also amplitude modulated.


62]  What is one way that voice is transmitted in a pulse-width
modulation system?

a}  A standard pulse is varied in amplitude by an amount
depending on the voice waveform at that instant.

b}  The position of a standard pulse is varied by an amount
depending on the voice waveform at that instant.

c}  A standard pulse is varied in duration by an amount depending
on the voice waveform at that instant.@@

d}  The number of standard pulses per second varies depending on
the voice waveform at that instant.


63]  The International Organization for Standardization has
developed a seven-level reference model for a packet-radio
communications structure. What level is responsible for the
actual transmission of data and handshaking signals?

a}  The physical layer.@@

b}  The transport layer.

c}  The communications layer.

d}  The synchronization layer.


64]  The International Organization for Standardization has
developed a seven-level reference model for a packet-radio
communications structure. What level arranges the bits into
frames and controls data flow?

a}  The transport layer.

b}  The link layer.@@

c}  The communications layer.

d}  The synchronization layer.


65]  What is one advantage of using the ASCII code, with its
larger character set, instead of the Baudot code?

a}  ASCII includes built-in error-correction features.

b}  ASCII characters contain fewer information bits than Baudot
characters.

c}  It is possible to transmit upper and lower case text.@@

d}  The larger character set allows store-and-forward control
characters to be added to a message.


66]  What is the duration of a 45-baud Baudot RTTY data pulse?

a}  11 milliseconds.

b}  40 milliseconds.

c}  31 milliseconds.

d}  22 milliseconds.@@


67]  What is the duration of a 45-baud Baudot RTTY start pulse?

a}  11 milliseconds.

b}  22 milliseconds.@@

c}  31 milliseconds.

d}  40 milliseconds.


68]  What is the duration of a 45-baud Baudot RTTY stop pulse?

a}  11 milliseconds.

b}  18 milliseconds.

c}  31 milliseconds.@@

d}  40 milliseconds.


80]  What is amplitude compandored single sideband?

a}  Reception of single sideband with a conventional CW receiver.

b}  Reception of single sideband with a conventional FM receiver.

c}  Single sideband incorporating speech compression at the
transmitter and speech expansion at the receiver.@@

d}  Single sideband incorporating speech expansion at the
transmitter and speech compression at the receiver.


81]  What is meant by compandoring?

a}  Compressing speech at the transmitter and expanding it at the
receiver.@@

b}  Using an audio-frequency signal to produce pulse-length
modulation.

c}  Combining amplitude and frequency modulation to produce a
single-sideband signal.

d}  Detecting and demodulating a single-sideband signal by
converting it to a pulse-modulated signal.


82]  What is the purpose of a pilot tone in an amplitude
compandored single sideband system?

a}  It permits rapid tuning of a mobile receiver.@@

b}  It replaces the suppressed carrier at the receiver.

c}  It permits rapid change of frequency to escape high-powered
interference.

d}  It acts as a beacon to indicate the present propagation
characteristic of the band.


83]  What is the approximate frequency of the pilot tone in an
amplitude compandored single sideband system?

a}  1 kHz.

b}  5 MHz.

c}  455 kHz.

d}  3 kHz.@@


84]  How many more voice transmissions can be packed into a
given frequency band for amplitude-compandored single-sideband
systems over conventional FM-phone systems?

a}  2.

b}  4.@@

c}  8.

d}  16.


85]  What term describes a wide-bandwidth communications system
in which the RF carrier varies according to some predetermined
sequence?

a}  Amplitude compandored single sideband.

b}  SITOR.

c}  Time-domain frequency modulation.

d}  Spread spectrum communication.@@


86]  What is the term used to describe a spread spectrum
communications system where the center frequency of a
conventional carrier is altered many times per second in
accordance with a pseudo-random list of channels?

a}  Frequency hopping.@@

b}  Direct sequence.

c}  Time-domain frequency modulation.

d}  Frequency compandored spread spectrum.


87]  What term is used to describe a spread spectrum
communications system in which a very fast binary bit stream is
used to shift the phase of an RF carrier?

a}  Frequency hopping.

b}  Direct sequence.@@

c}  Binary phase-shift keying.

d}  Phase compandored spread spectrum.


88]  What is the term for the amplitude of the maximum positive
excursion of a signal as viewed on an oscilloscope?

a}  Peak-to-peak voltage.

b}  Inverse peak negative voltage.

c}  RMS voltage.

d}  Peak positive voltage.@@


89]  What is the term for the amplitude of the maximum negative
excursion of a signal as viewed on an oscilloscope?

a}  Peak-to-peak voltage.

b}  Inverse peak positive voltage.

c}  RMS voltage.

d}  Peak negative voltage.@@


90]  What is the easiest voltage amplitude dimension to measure
by viewing a pure sine wave signal on an oscilloscope?

a}  Peak-to-peak voltage.@@

b}  RMS voltage.

c}  Average voltage.

d}  DC voltage.


91]  What is the relationship between the peak-to-peak voltage
and the peak voltage amplitude in a symmetrical wave form?

a}  1:1.

b}  2:1.@@

c}  3:1.

d}  4:1.


92]  What input-amplitude parameter is valuable in evaluating
the signal-handling capability of a Class A amplifier?

a}  Peak voltage.@@

b}  Average voltage.

c}  RMS voltage.

d}  Resting voltage.


93]  If 480 kHz is radiated from a 1/4 wavelength antenna, what
is the 7th harmonic?

a}  3.360 MHz.@@

b}  840 kHz.

c}  3350 kHz.

d}  480 kHz.


94]  What is the seventh harmonic of a 100 MHz quarter
wavelength antenna?

a}  14.28 MHz.

b}  107 MHz.

c}  149 MHz.

d}  700 MHz.@@


95]  What is the seventh harmonic of 2182 kHz when the
transmitter is connected to a half-wave Hertz antenna?

a}  2182 kHz.

b}  15.27 MHz.@@

c}  311.7 kHz.

d}  7.64 MHz.


96]  What is the fifth harmonic frequency of a transmitter
operating on 480 kHz with a 1/4 wavelength antenna?

a}  2.4 MHz.@@

b}  240 MHz.

c}  600 kHz.

d}  1.2 MHz.


97]  What is the frequency range of the ground-based Very
High Frequency Omnidirectional Range (VOR) stations used for
aircraft navigation?

a}  108.00 kHz to 117.95 kHz.

b}  329.15 MHz to 335.00 MHz.

c}  329.15 kHz to 335.00 kHz.

d}  108.00 MHz to 117.95 MHz.@@


98]  What is the function of a commercial aircraft's SELCAL
installation?

a}  SELCAL is a type of aircraft communications device that
allows an aircraft's receiver to be continuously CALibrated for
signal SELectivity.

b}  SELCAL is a type of aircraft communications system where a
ground-based transmitter can CALL a SELected aircraft or group of
aircraft without the flight crew monitoring the ground-station
frequency.@@

c}  SELCAL is a type of aircraft transmission that uses
SEquential LogiC ALgorithm encryption to prevent public
"eavesdropping" of crucial aircraft flight data.

d}  SELCAL is a type of aircraft communications system where an
airborne transmitter can SELectively CALculate the line-of-sight
distance to several ground-station receivers.


99]  What is the main underlying operating principle of the
Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Range (VOR) aircraft
navigational system?

a}  A definite amount of time is required to send and receive a
radio signal.

b}  The difference between the peak values of two DC voltages may
be used to determine an aircraft's altitude above a selected VOR
station.

c}  A phase difference between two AC voltages may be used to
determine an aircraft's azimuth position in relation to a
selected VOR station.@@

d}  A phase difference between two AC voltages may be used to
determine an aircraft's distance from a selected VOR station.


100]  The amplitude modulated variable phase signal and the
frequency modulated reference phase signal of a Very High
Frequency Omnidirectional Range (VOR) station used for aircraft
navigation are synchronized so that both signals are in phase
with each other at:

a}  180 degrees South, true bearing position of the VOR station.

b}  360 degrees North, magnetic bearing position of the VOR
station.@@

c}  180 degrees South, magnetic bearing position of the VOR
station.

d}  0 degrees North, true bearing position of the VOR station.

 
101]  Choose the only correct statement about the effective
range of a Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Range (VOR)
station used for aircraft navigation.

a}  Its reception range is based on both the aircraft's altitude
and the aircraft's line-of-sight to the VOR station.@@

b}  Its reception range is not a function of the aircraft's
altitude.

c}  Its reception range is not a function of the aircraft's
longitude and latitude position in relation to the VOR station's
position.

d}  Its reception range is greatly affected by atmospheric
effects and propagation anomalies.


102]  What is the name of the mechanically rotatable variable
RF transformer device of a Very High Frequency Omnidirectional
Range (VOR) station that is used to generate the amplitude
modulated variable phase signal used in aircraft navigation?

a}  A ghandimeter.

b}  A goniometer.@@

c}  A gondolameter.

d}  A gorgonzolameter.


103]  What is the frequency range of the localizer beam
system used by aircraft to find the centerline of a runway during
an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to an airport?

a}  108.10 kHz to 111.95 kHz.

b}  329.15 MHz to 335.00 MHz.

c}  329.15 kHz to 335.00 kHz.

d}  108.10 MHz to 111.95 MHz.@@


104]  Choose the only correct statement about the localizer
beam system used by aircraft to find the centerline of a runway
during an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to an airport.

a}  The localizer beam system operates within the assigned
frequency range of 108.10 GHz to 111.95 GHz.

b}  The localizer beam system produces two amplitude modulated
antenna patterns; one pattern above and one pattern below the
normal 2.5 degree approach glidepath of the aircraft.

c}  The localizer beam system's frequencies are automatically
tuned-in when the proper glideslope frequency is selected on the
aircraft's Navigation and Communication (NAV/COMM) transceiver.

d}  The localizer beam system produces two amplitude modulated
antenna patterns; one pattern with an audio frequency of 90 Hz
and one pattern with an audio frequency of 150 Hz.@@


105]  Choose the only correct statement about the localizer
beam system used by aircraft to find the centerline of a runway
during an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to an airport.

a}  If the ratio of the 90 Hz audio signal strength to the 150 Hz
audio signal strength of the antenna patterns is equal; the
aircraft is on the proper 2.5 degree approach glidepath.

b}  If the strength of the 90 Hz audio signal is greater than the
strength of the 150 Hz audio signal of the antenna patterns; the
aircraft is to the left of the centerline of the runway.@@

c}  If the strength of the 150 Hz audio signal is greater than
the strength of the 90 Hz audio signal of the antenna patterns;
the aircraft is to the left of the centerline of the runway.

d}  If the strength of the 150 Hz audio signal is greater than
the strength of the 90 Hz audio signal of the antenna patterns;
the aircraft is above the proper 2.5 degree approach glidepath.


106]  What is the frequency range of the glideslope beam
system used by aircraft to maintain the proper ascent angle to
the surface of a runway during an Instrument Landing System (ILS)
approach to an airport?

a}  108.00 MHz to 117.95 MHz.

b}  329.15 kHz to 335.00 kHz.

c}  329.15 MHz to 335.00 MHz.@@

d}  108.10 kHz to 117.95 kHz.


107]  Choose the only correct statement about the glideslope
beam system used by aircraft to maintain the proper ascent angle
to the surface of a runway during an Instrument Landing System
(ILS) approach to an airport.

a}  Two antenna patterns are produced; one to the left of the
runway's centerline at an audio modulated tone of 90 Hz and one
to the right of the runway's centerline at an audio modulated
tone of 150 Hz.

b}  Two antenna patterns are produced; one to the left of the
runway's centerline at an audio modulated tone of 150 Hz and one
to the right of the runway's centerline at an audio modulated
tone of 90 Hz.

c}  Two antenna patterns are produced; one above the normal 2.5
degree ascent angle to the runway's surface at an audio modulated
tone of 150 Hz and one below the normal 2.5 degree ascent angle
to the runway's surface at an audio modulated tone of 90 Hz.

d}  Two antenna patterns are produced; one above the normal 2.5
degree ascent angle to the runway's surface at an audio modulated
tone of  90 Hz and one below the normal 2.5 degree ascent angle
to the runway's surface at an audio modulated tone of 150 Hz.@@


108]  What is the frequency range of the marker beacon system
used to indicate an aircraft's position during an Instrument
Landing System (ILS) approach to an airport's runway?

a}  The outer, middle, and inner marker beacons' UHF frequencies
are unique for each ILS equipped airport to provide unambiguous
frequency protected reception areas in the 329.15 MHz to 335.00
MHz range.

b}  The outer marker beacon's carrier frequency is 400 MHz, the
middle marker beacon's carrier frequency is 1300 MHz, and the
inner marker beacon's carrier frequency is 3000 MHz.

c}  The outer, the middle, and the inner marker beacon's carrier
frequencies are all 75 MHz but the marker beacons are 95%
tone-modulated at 400 Hz (outer), 1300 Hz (middle), and 3000 Hz
(inner).@@

d}  The outer marker beacon's carrier frequency is 3000 kHz, the
middle marker beacon's carrier frequency is 1300 kHz, and the
inner marker beacon's carrier frequency is 400 kHz.
  
  
109]  What is the frequency range of the Distance Measuring
Equipment (DME) used to indicate an aircraft's slant range
distance to a selected ground-based navigation station?

a}  962 MHz to 1213 MHz.@@

b}  108.10 MHz to 111.95 MHz.

c}  108.00 MHz to 117.95 MHz.

d}  329.15 MHz to 335.00 MHz.


110]  What is the main underlying operating principle of an
aircraft's Distance Measuring Equipment (DME)?

a}  A measurable amount of time is required to send and receive a
radio signal through the earth's atmosphere.@@

b}  The difference between the peak values of two DC voltages may
be used to determine an aircraft's distance to another aircraft.

c}  A measurable frequency compression of an AC signal may be
used to determine an aircraft's altitude above the earth.

d}  A phase inversion between two AC voltages may be used to
determine an aircraft's distance to the exit ramp of an airport's
runway.


111]  What is the slant range distance of an aircraft's
Distance Measuring Equipment (DME)?

a}  It is the distance between two aircraft of different
altitudes.

b}  It is the distance between two ground-based navigation
stations having differences in their elevations above mean sea
level.

c}  It is the line-of-sight distance between an aircraft and a
selected ground-based navigation station.@@

d}  It is the radius-of-the-earth distance between two
ground-based navigation stations having the same elevations above
mean sea level.


112]  What is the distance to a selected Distance Measuring
Equipment (DME) station if an aircraft receives the ground
station's reply 175 microseconds after it transmits its airborne
interrogation signal? Use the standard 50 microsecond DME reply
delay.

a}  20.2 nautical miles.

b}  11.6 statute miles.@@

c}  14.2 nautical miles.

d}  10.1 statute miles.


113]  What are the transmission and the reception frequencies
of an aircraft's mode C transponder operating in the Air Traffic
Control Radar Beacon System (ATCRBS)?

a}  Transmit at 1090 MHz and receive at 1030 MHz.@@

b}  Transmit at 1030 kHz and receive at 1090 kHz.

c}  Transmit at 1090 kHz and receive at 1030 kHz.

d}  Transmit at 1030 MHz and receive at 1090 MHz.


114]  What type of information is derived from an aircraft's
mode C transponder transmission operating in the Air Traffic
Control Radar Beacon System (ATCRBS)?

a}  Range, aircraft weight, and fuel aboard information.

b}  Range, aircraft weight, and altitude information.

c}  Range, fuel aboard, and altitude information.

d}  Range, bearing, and altitude information.@@


115]  What type of encoding is used in an aircraft's mode C
transponder transmission to a ground station of the Air Traffic
Control Radar Beacon System (ATCRBS)?

a}   Differential phase shift keying.

b}   Pulse position modulation.@@

c}   Doppler effect compressional encryption.

d}   Amplitude modulation at 95%.


116]  What type of encryption is used in the P6 informational
pulse of an aircraft's mode S transponder transmission to a
ground station of the Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon System
(ATCRBS)?

a}   Differential phase shift keying.@@

b}   Pulse position modulation.

c}   Doppler effect compressional encryption.

d}   Amplitude modulation at 95%.


117]  What is the function of the P2 side lobe suppression
(SLS) pulse that is received by an aircraft's mode C or mode S
transponder operating in the Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon
System (ATCRBS)?

a}  The P2 SLS pulse is radiated from an ATCRBS omnidirectional
antenna and is used to suppress an aircraft's transponder reply
if it is located in the spurious side lobes of the ATCRBS
interrogation directional beam pattern.@@

b}  The P2 SLS pulse is radiated from an ATCRBS directional
antenna and is used to ensure that an aircraft's transponder will
continuously reply to all transmitted ATCRBS interrogation
signals while suppressing all other aircraft from replying.

c}  The P2 SLS pulse is radiated from an ATCRBS omnidirectional
antenna to suppress the reply of non-transponder equipped
aircraft within the ATCRBS' reception area.

d}  The P2 SLS pulse is transmitted by the aircraft's transponder
to suppress other aircrafts' transponders from replying to an
ATCRBS interrogation signal thereby eliminating reply
transmission confusion.


118]  In addition to duplicating the functions of a mode C
transponder, an aircraft's mode S transponder can also provide:.

a}  Primary radar surveillance capabilities.

b}  Long range lightning detection.

c}  Mid-air collision avoidance capabilities.@@

d}  Backup VHF voice communication abilities.


119]  In the Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon System
(ATCRBS), what is an aircraft's mode S squitter transmission?

a}  It is a 1090 MHz transmission that announces the unique
presence of a mode S capable aircraft by  encrypting the
aircraft's tail number in the signal.@@

b}  It is a 1030 MHz transmission that is only used to determine
the distance to an aircraft that is not transponder equipped.

c}  It is a 1090 MHz transmission that is used to actively track
other aircraft that are not transponder equipped .

d}  It is a 1030 MHz transmission that is used as a safety
distress signal when an aircraft is in danger of a mid-air
collision.


120]  What is the frequency range of an aircraft's radio
altimeter?

a}  962 MHz to 1213 MHz.

b}  329.15 MHz to 335.00 MHz.

c}  4250 MHz to 4350 MHz.@@

d}  108.00 MHz to 117.95 MHz.

 
121]  What type of transmission is radiated from an
aircraft's radio altimeter antenna?

a}  An amplitude modulated continuous wave.

b}  A pulse position modulated UHF signal.

c}  A differential phase shift keyed UHF signal.

d}  A frequency modulated continuous wave.@@


122]  What is the normal Above Ground Level (AGL) range of an
aircraft's radio altimeter?

a}  0 feet AGL to 2,500 feet AGL.@@

b}  0 feet AGL to 25,000 feet AGL.

c}  0 feet AGL to 75,000 feet AGL.

d}  0 feet AGL to the inner boundaries of the troposphere.


123]  What occurs when an aircraft's radio altimeter
experiences the double bounce phenomenon?

a}  One aircraft's radio altimeter transmission is received by
another aircraft's radio altimeter antenna, giving erroneous
indications.

b}  An aircraft's radio altimeter transmission is first
bounced-off the earth's troposphere, then bounced-off the earth's
surface, then received.

c}  An aircraft's radio altimeter transmission is bounced-off the
earth, then bounced-off the aircraft's skin, then bounced-off the
earth again, then received.@@

d}  One aircraft's radio altimeter transmission is bounced-off
another aircraft's skin, then received, giving erroneous
indications.


124]  What is the frequency range of an aircraft's Automatic
Direction Finding (ADF) equipment?

a}  190 MHz to 1750 MHz.

b}  108.10 MHz to 111.95 MHz.

c}  190 kHz to 1750 kHz.@@

d}  108.00 MHz to 117.95 MHz.


125]  Choose the only correct statement about an aircraft's
Automatic Direction Finding (ADF) equipment.

a}  An aircraft's ADF transmission exhibits primarily a
line-of-sight range to the ground-based target station and will
not follow the curvature of the earth.

b}  Only a single omnidirectional sense antenna is required to
receive an NDB transmission and process the signal to calculate
the aircraft's bearing to the selected ground station.

c}  All frequencies in the ADF's operating range except the
commercial standard broadcast stations (550 kHz to 1660 kHz) can
be utilized as a navigational Non Directional Beacon (NDB)
signal.

d}  An aircraft's ADF antennas can receive transmissions that are
over the earth's horizon (sometimes several hundred miles away)
since these signals will follow the curvature of the earth.@@


126]  What is the cause of quadrantal error when using an
aircraft's Automatic Direction Finding (ADF) equipment?

a}  Quadrantal error is caused by the altitude of an aircraft in
relation to the curvature of the earth.

b}  Quadrantal error is caused by the geographic position of an
aircraft in relation to the North, South, East, or West quadrant
of the earth.

c}  Quadrantal error is caused by the presence of the aircraft in
the electromagnetic field of the NDB transmission.@@

d}  Quadrantal error is caused when the aircraft's ADF
transmission is not attenuated sufficiently and is then received
at an elevated power level.


127]  What is meant by the term, "night effect", when using
an aircraft's Automatic Direction Finding (ADF) equipment?

a}  Night effect refers to the fact that all Non Directional
Beacon (NDB) transmitters are turned-off at dusk and turned-on at
dawn.

b}  Night effect refers to the fact that Non Directional Beacon
(NDB) transmissions can bounce-off the earth's ionosphere at
night and be received at almost any direction.@@

c}  Night effect refers to the fact that an aircraft's ADF
transmissions will be slowed at night due to the increased
density of the earth's atmosphere after sunset.

d}  Night effect refers to the fact that an aircraft's ADF
antennas usually collect dew moisture after sunset which
decreases their effective reception distance from an NDB
transmitter.


128]  What is the frequency range of an aircraft's High
Frequency (HF) communications?

a}  118.000 MHz to 136.975 MHz (worldwide up to 151.975 MHz).

b}  108.00 MHz to 117.95 MHz.

c}  329.15 MHz to 335.00 MHz.

d}  2.000 MHz to 29.999 MHz.@@


129]  Why is an antenna coupler used in an aircraft's High
Frequency (HF) communications installation?

a}  The antenna coupler is a TNC connector that electrically and
mechanically bonds the HF receiver and, or box to the antenna's
coaxial lead.

b}  The antenna coupler is a device that is used to secure an HF
antenna to the aircraft's fuselage.

c}  The antenna coupler is a device that is used to provide an
efficient voltage standing-wave ratio impedance match between the
HF transmitter load and the transmission line antenna.@@

d}  The antenna coupler is a device that is used to "daisy chain"
several HF antennas on an aircraft to increase its HF reception
range.


130]  What is the frequency range of an aircraft's Very High
Frequency (VHF) communications?

a}  118.000 MHz to 136.975 MHz (worldwide up to 151.975 MHz)@@.

b}  108.00 MHz to 117.95 MHz.

c}  329.15 MHz to 335.00 MHz.

d}  2.000 MHz to 29.999 MHz.


131]  Choose the only correct statement about an aircraft's
High Frequency (HF) and Very High Frequency (VHF) communication
transmissions.

a}  VHF transmissions usually follow the curvature of the earth
or are reflected by the ionosphere to provide long-range
communications.

b}  HF transmission antennas are smaller and more aerodynamic
than are VHF transmission antennas.

c}  VHF transmissions experience less channel interference than
do HF transmissions.@@

d}  HF transmissions are primarily a line-of-sight system between
the transmitter station and the receiver station.





