Subelement 3H - Antennas and feedlines


1]  What is meant by the term antenna gain?

a}  The numerical ratio relating the radiated signal strength of
an antenna to that of another antenna.@@

b}  The ratio of the signal in the forward direction to the
signal in the back direction.

c}  The ratio of the amount of power produced by the antenna
compared to the output power of the transmitter.

d}  The final amplifier gain minus the transmission line losses
(including any phasing lines present).


2]  What is the term for a numerical ratio that relates the
performance of one antenna to that of another real or theoretical
antenna?

a}  Effective radiated power.

b}  Antenna gain.@@

c}  Conversion gain.

d}  Peak effective power.


3]  What is meant by the term antenna bandwidth?

a}  Antenna length divided by the number of elements.

b}  The frequency range over which an antenna can be expected to
perform well.@@

c}  The angle between the half-power radiation points.

d}  The angle formed between two imaginary lines drawn through
the ends of the elements.


4]  What is the wavelength of a shorted stub used to absorb
even harmonics?

a}  1/2 wavelength.

b}  1/3 wavelength.

c}  1/4 wavelength.@@

d}  1/8 wavelength.


5]  What is a trap antenna?

a}  An antenna for rejecting interfering signals.

b}  A highly sensitive antenna with maximum gain in all
directions.

c}  An antenna capable of being used on more than one band
because of the presence of parallel LC networks.@@

d}  An antenna with a large capture area.


6]  What is an advantage of using a trap antenna?

a}  It has high directivity in the high-frequency bands.

b}  It has high gain.

c}  It minimizes harmonic radiation.

d}  It may be used for multiband operation.@@


7]  What is a disadvantage of using a trap antenna?

a}  It will radiate harmonics.@@

b}  It can only be used for single band operation.

c}  It is too sharply directional at lower frequencies.

d}  It must be neutralized.


8]  What is the principle of a trap antenna?

a}  Beamwidth may be controlled by non-linear impedances.

b}  The traps form a high impedance to isolate parts of the
antenna.@@

c}  The effective radiated power can be increased if the space
around the antenna "sees" a high impedance.

d}  The traps increase the antenna gain.


9]  What is a parasitic element of an antenna?

a}  An element polarized 90 degrees opposite the driven element.

b}  An element dependent on the antenna structure for support.

c}  An element that receives its excitation from mutual coupling
rather than from a transmission line.@@

d}  A transmission line that radiates radio-frequency energy.


10]  How does a parasitic element generate an electromagnetic
field?

a}  By the RF current received from a connected transmission line.

b}  By interacting with the earth's magnetic field.

c}  By altering the phase of the current on the driven element.

d}  By currents induced into the element from a surrounding
electric field.@@


11]  How does the length of the reflector element of a
parasitic element beam antenna compare with that of the driven
element?

a}  It is about 5% longer.@@

b}  It is about 5% shorter.

c}  It is twice as long.

d}  It is one-half as long.


12]  How does the length of the director element of a parasitic
element beam antenna compare with that of the driven element?

a}  It is about 5% longer.

b}  It is about 5% shorter.@@

c}  It is one-half as long.

d}  It is twice as long.


13]  What is meant by the term radiation resistance for an
antenna?

a}  Losses in the antenna elements and feed line.

b}  The specific impedance of the antenna.

c}  An equivalent resistance that would dissipate the same amount
of power as that radiated from an antenna.@@

d}  The resistance in the trap coils to received signals.


14]  What are the factors that determine the radiation
resistance of an antenna?

a}  Transmission line length and height of antenna.

b}  The location of the antenna with respect to nearby objects
and the length/diameter ratio of the conductors.@@

c}  It is a constant for all antennas since it is a physical
constant.

d}  Sunspot activity and the time of day.


15]  What is a driven element of an antenna?

a}  Always the rearmost element.

b}  Always the forwardmost element.

c}  The element fed by the transmission line.@@

d}  The element connected to the rotator.


16]  What is the usual electrical length of a driven element in
a HF beam antenna?

a}  1/4 wavelength.

b}  1/2 wavelength.@@

c}  3/4 wavelength.

d}  1 wavelength.


17]  What is the term for an antenna element that is supplied
power from a transmitter through a transmission line?

a}  Driven element.@@

b}  Director element.

c}  Reflector element.

d}  Parasitic element.


18]  How is antenna "efficiency" computed?

a}  Efficiency = (radiation resistance/transmission resistance) X
100%.

b}  Efficiency = (radiation resistance/total resistance) X 100%.@@

c}  Efficiency = (total resistance/radiation resistance) X 100%.

d}  Efficiency = (effective radiated power/transmitter output) X
100%.


19]  What is the term for the ratio of the radiation resistance
of an antenna to the total resistance of the system?

a}  Effective radiated power.

b}  Radiation conversion loss.

c}  Antenna efficiency.@@

d}  Beamwidth.


20]  What is included in the total resistance of an antenna
system?

a}  Radiation resistance plus space impedance.

b}  Radiation resistance plus transmission resistance.

c}  Transmission line resistance plus radiation resistance.

d}  Radiation resistance plus ohmic resistance.@@


21]  How can the antenna efficiency of a HF grounded vertical
antenna be made comparable to that of a half-wave antenna?

a}  By installing a good ground radial system.@@

b}  By isolating the coax shield from ground.

c}  By shortening the vertical.

d}  By lengthening the vertical.


22]  Why does a half-wave antenna operate at very high
efficiency?

a}  Because it is non-resonant.

b}  Because the conductor resistance is low compared to the
radiation resistance.@@

c}  Because earth-induced currents add to its radiated power.

d}  Because it has less corona from the element ends than other
types of antennas.


23]  What is a folded dipole antenna?

a}  A dipole that is one-quarter wavelength long.

b}  A ground plane antenna.

c}  A dipole whose ends are connected by another one-half
wavelength piece of wire.@@

d}  A fictional antenna used in theoretical discussions to
replace the radiation resistance.


24]  How does the bandwidth of a folded dipole antenna compare
with that of a simple dipole antenna?

a}  It is 0.707 times the simple dipole bandwidth.

b}  It is essentially the same.

c}  It is less than 50% that of a simple dipole.

d}  It is greater.@@


25]  What is the input terminal impedance at the center of a
folded dipole antenna?

a}  300 ohms.@@

b}  72 ohms.

c}  50 ohms.

d}  450 ohms.


26]  What is the meaning of the term "velocity factor" of a
transmission line?

a}  The ratio of the characteristic impedance of the line to the
terminating impedance.

b}  The index of shielding for coaxial cable.

c}  The velocity of the wave on the transmission line multiplied
by the velocity of light in a vacuum.

d}  The velocity of the wave on the transmission line divided by
the velocity of light in a vacuum.@@


27]  What is the term for the ratio of actual velocity at which
a signal travels through a line to the speed of light in a
vacuum?

a}  Velocity factor.@@

b}  Characteristic impedance.

c}  Surge impedance.

d}  Standing wave ratio.


28]  What is the velocity factor for non-foam dielectric 50 or
75 ohm flexible coaxial cable such as RG 8, 11, 58 and 59? .

a}  2.70.

b}  0.66.@@

c}  0.30.

d}  0.10.


29]  What determines the velocity factor in a transmission
line?

a}  The termination impedance.

b}  The line length.

c}  Dielectrics in the line.@@

d}  The center conductor resistivity.


30]  Why is the physical length of a coaxial cable transmission
line shorter than its electrical length?

a}  Skin effect is less pronounced in the coaxial cable.

b}  RF energy moves slower along the coaxial cable.@@

c}  The surge impedance is higher in the parallel feed line.

d}  The characteristic impedance is higher in the parallel feed
line.


35]  In a half-wave antenna, where are the current nodes?

a}  At the ends.@@

b}  At the center.

c}  Three-quarters of the way from the feed point toward the end.

d}  One-half of the way from the feed point toward the end.


36]  In a half-wave antenna, where are the voltage nodes?

a}  At the ends.

b}  At the feed point.@@

c}  Three-quarters of the way from the feed point toward the end.

d}  One-half of the way from the feed point toward the end.


37]  At the ends of a half-wave antenna, what values of current
and voltage exist compared to the remainder of the antenna?

a}  Equal voltage and current.

b}  Minimum voltage and maximum current.

c}  Maximum voltage and minimum current.@@

d}  Minimum voltage and minimum current.


38]  At the center of a half-wave antenna, what values of
voltage and current exist compared to the remainder of the
antenna?

a}  Equal voltage and current.

b}  Maximum voltage and minimum current.

c}  Minimum voltage and minimum current.

d}  Minimum voltage and maximum current.@@


39]  What happens to the base feed point of a fixed length
mobile antenna as the frequency of operation is lowered?

a}  The resistance decreases and the capacitive reactance
decreases.

b}  The resistance decreases and the capacitive reactance
increases.@@

c}  The resistance increases and the capacitive reactance
decreases.

d}  The resistance increases and the capacitive reactance
increases.


40]  Why should an HF mobile antenna loading coil have a high
ratio of reactance to resistance?

a}  To swamp out harmonics.

b}  To maximize losses.

c}  To minimize losses.@@

d}  To minimize the Q.


41]  Why is a loading coil often used with an HF mobile
antenna?

a}  To improve reception.

b}  To lower the losses.

c}  To lower the Q.

d}  To tune out the capacitive reactance.@@


42]  For a shortened vertical antenna, where should a loading
coil be placed to minimize losses and produce the most effective
performance?

a}  Near the center of the vertical radiator.@@

b}  As low as possible on the vertical radiator.

c}  As close to the transmitter as possible.

d}  At a voltage node.


43]  What happens to the bandwidth of an antenna as it is
shortened through the use of loading coils?

a}  It is increased.

b}  It is decreased.@@

c}  No change occurs.

d}  It becomes flat.


44]  What type of antenna is used in an aircraft's Instrument
Landing System (ILS) glideslope installation?

a}  A vertically polarized antenna that radiates an
omnidirectional antenna pattern.

b}  A balanced loop reception antenna.

c}  A folded dipole reception antenna.@@

d}  An electronically steerable phased-array antenna that
radiates a directional antenna pattern.

                
45]  What is an advantage of using top loading in a shortened
HF vertical antenna?

a}  Lower Q.

b}  Greater structural strength.

c}  Higher losses.

d}  Improved radiation efficiency.@@


46]  What is an isotropic radiator?

a}  A hypothetical, omnidirectional antenna.@@

b}  In the northern hemisphere, an antenna whose directive
pattern is constant in southern directions.

c}  An antenna high enough in the air that its directive pattern
is substantially unaffected by the ground beneath it.

d}  An antenna whose directive pattern is substantially
unaffected by the spacing of the elements.


47]  When is it useful to refer to an isotropic radiator?

a}  When comparing the gains of directional antennas.@@

b}  When testing a transmission line for standing wave ratio.

c}  When (in the northern hemisphere) directing the transmission
in a southerly direction.

d}  When using a dummy load to tune a transmitter.


48]  What theoretical reference antenna provides a comparison
for antenna measurements?

a}  Quarter-wave vertical.

b}  Yagi-Uda array.

c}  Bobtail curtain.

d}  Isotropic radiator.@@


49]  What purpose does an isotropic radiator serve?

a}  It is used to compare signal strengths (at a distant point)
of different transmitters.

b}  It is used as a reference for antenna gain measurements.@@

c}  It is used as a dummy load for tuning transmitters.

d}  It is used to measure the standing-wave-ratio on a
transmission line.


50]  How much gain does a 1/2-wavelength dipole have over an
isotropic radiator?

a}  About 1.5 dB.

b}  About 2.1 dB.@@

c}  About 3.0 dB.

d}  About 6.0 dB.


51]  How much gain does an antenna have over a 1/2-wavelength
dipole when it has 6 dB gain over an isotropic radiator?

a}  About 3.9 dB.@@

b}  About 6.0 dB.

c}  About 8.1 dB.

d}  About 10.0 dB.


52]  How much gain does an antenna have over a 1/2-wavelength
dipole when it has 12 dB gain over an isotropic radiator?

a}  About 6.1 dB.

b}  About 9.9 dB.@@

c}  About 12.0 dB.

d}  About 14.1 dB.


53]  What is the antenna pattern for an isotropic radiator?

a}  A figure-8.

b}  A unidirectional cardioid.

c}  A parabola.

d}  A sphere.@@


54]  What type of directivity pattern does an isotropic
radiator have?

a}  A figure-8.

b}  A unidirectional cardioid.

c}  A parabola.

d}  A sphere.@@


55]  What factors determine the receiving antenna gain required
at a station in earth operation?

a}  Height, transmitter power and antennas of satellite.@@

b}  Length of transmission line and impedance match between
receiver and transmission line.

c}  Preamplifier location on transmission line and presence or
absence of RF amplifier stages.

d}  Height of earth antenna and satellite orbit.


56]  What factors determine the EIRP required by a station in
earth operation?

a}  Satellite antennas and height, satellite receiver
sensitivity.@@

b}  Path loss, earth antenna gain, signal-to-noise ratio.

c}  Satellite transmitter power and orientation of ground
receiving antenna.

d}  Elevation of satellite above horizon, signal-to-noise ratio,
satellite transmitter power.


57]  What factors determine the EIRP required by a station in
telecommand operation?

a}  Path loss, earth antenna gain, signal-to-noise ratio.

b}  Satellite antennas and height, satellite receiver
sensitivity.@@

c}  Satellite transmitter power and orientation of ground
receiving antenna.

d}  Elevation of satellite above horizon, signal-to-noise ratio,
satellite transmitter power.


58]  How does the gain of a parabolic dish type antenna change
when the operating frequency is doubled?

a}  Gain does not change.

b}  Gain is multiplied by 0.707.

c}  Gain increases 6 dB.@@

d}  Gain increases 3 dB.


59]  What happens to the beamwidth of an antenna as the gain is
increased?

a}  The beamwidth increases geometrically as the gain is
increased.

b}  The beamwidth increases arithmetically as the gain is
increased.

c}  The beamwidth is essentially unaffected by the gain of the
antenna.

d}  The beamwidth decreases as the gain is increased.@@


64]  How is circular polarization produced using
linearly-polarized antennas?

a}  Stack two yagis, fed 90 degrees out of phase, to form an
array with the respective elements in parallel planes.

b}  Stack two yagis, fed in phase, to form an array with the
respective elements in parallel planes.

c}  Arrange two yagis perpendicular to each other, with the
driven elements in the same plane, fed 90 degrees out of phase.@@

d}  Arrange two yagis perpendicular to each other, with the
driven elements in the same plane, fed in phase.


65]  Why does an antenna system for earth operation (for
communications through a satellite) need to have rotators for
both azimuth and elevation control?

a}  In order to point the antenna above the horizon to avoid
terrestrial interference.

b}  Satellite antennas require two rotators because they are so
large and heavy.

c}  In order to track the satellite as it orbits the earth.@@

d}  The elevation rotator points the antenna at the satellite and
the azimuth rotator changes the antenna polarization.


66]  What term describes a method used to match a
high-impedance transmission line to a lower impedance antenna by
connecting the line to the driven element in two places, spaced a
fraction of a wavelength on each side of the driven element
center?

a}  The gamma matching system.

b}  The delta matching system.@@

c}  The omega matching system.

d}  The stub matching system.


67]  What term describes an unbalanced feed system in which the
driven element is fed both at the center of that element and a
fraction of a wavelength to one side of center?

a}  The gamma matching system.@@

b}  The delta matching system.

c}  The omega matching system.

d}  The stub matching system.


68]  What term describes a method of antenna impedance matching
that uses a short section of transmission line connected to the
antenna feed line near the antenna and perpendicular to the feed
line?

a}  The gamma matching system.

b}  The delta matching system.

c}  The omega matching system.

d}  The stub matching system.@@


77]  What is the term used for an equivalent resistance that
would dissipate the same amount of energy as that radiated from
an antenna?

a}  Space resistance.

b}  Loss resistance.

c}  Transmission line loss.

d}  Radiation resistance.@@


78]  Why is the value of the radiation resistance of an antenna
important?

a}  Knowing the radiation resistance makes it possible to match
impedances for maximum power transfer.@@

b}  Knowing the radiation resistance makes it possible to measure
the near-field radiation density from a transmitting antenna.

c}  The value of the radiation resistance represents the
front-to-side ratio of the antenna.

d}  The value of the radiation resistance represents the
front-to-back ratio of the antenna.


79]  Adding parasitic elements to an antenna will:

a}  Decrease its directional characteristics.

b}  Decrease its sensitivity.

c}  Increase its directional characteristics.@@

d}  Increase its sensitivity.


80]  What ferrite rod device prevents the formation of
reflected waves on a waveguide transmission line?

a}  Reflector.

b}  Isolator.@@

c}  Wave-trap.

d}  SWR refractor.


81]  Frequencies most affected by knife-edge refraction are:

a}  Low and medium frequencies.

b}  High frequencies.

c}  Very high and ultra high frequencies.@@

d}  100 kHz. to 3.0 MHz.


82]  When measuring I and V along a 1/2 wave Hertz antenna,
where would you find the points where I and V are maximum and
minimum?

a}  V and I are high at the ends.

b}  V and I are high in the middle.

c}  V and I are uniform throughout the antenna.

d}  V is maximum at both ends, I is maximum in the middle.@@


83]  To increase the resonant frequency of a 1/4 wavelength
antenna:

a}  Add a capacitor.@@

b}  Lower capacitor value.

c}  Cut antenna.

d}  Add an inductor.


84]  Why are concentric transmission lines sometimes filled
with nitrogen?

a}  Reduces resistance at high frequencies.

b}  Prevent water damage underground.

c}  Keep moisture out and prevent oxidation.@@

d}  Reduce microwave line losses.


85]  A vertical 1/4 wave antenna receives signals:

a}  In the microwave band.

b}  In one vertical direction.

c}  In one horizontal direction.

d}  Equally from all horizontal directions.@@


86]  Which of the following represents the best standing wave
ratio (SWR)?

a}  1:1.@@

b}  1:1.5.

c}  1:3.

d}  1:4.


87]  What is the purpose of stacking elements on an antenna?

a}  Sharper directional pattern.

b}  Increased gain.

c}  Improved bandpass.

d}  All of these.@@


88]  What type of antenna is used in an aircraft's Instrument
Landing System (ILS) marker beacon installation?

a}  An electronically steerable phased-array antenna that
radiates a directional antenna pattern.

b}  A folded dipole reception antenna.

c}  A balanced loop reception antenna.@@

d}  A horizontally polarized antenna that radiates an
omnidirectional antenna pattern.


89]  On a half-wave Hertz antenna:

a}  Voltage is maximum at both ends and current is maximum at the
center of the antenna.@@

b}  Current is maximum at both ends and voltage in the center.

c}  Voltage and current are uniform throughout the antenna.

d}  Voltage and current are high at the ends.


90]  What type of antenna is designed for minimum radiation?

a}  Dummy antenna.@@

b}  Quarter-wave antenna.

c}  Half-wave antenna.

d}  Directional antenna.


91]  What type of antenna is used in an aircraft's Very High
Frequency Omnidirectional Range (VOR) and Localizer (LOC)
installations? 
    
a}  A vertically polarized antenna that radiates an
omnidirectional antenna pattern.

b}  A folded dipole reception antenna.

c}  A balanced loop transmission antenna.

d}  A horizontally polarized omnidirection reception antenna.@@


92]  Adding parasitic elements to a quarter-wavelength
antenna will:

a}  Reduce its directional characteristics.

b}  Increase its directional characteristics.

c}  Increase its sensitivity.

d}  Increase its directional characteristics and increase its sensitivity.@@


93]  Ignoring line losses, voltage at a point on a transmission
line without standing waves is:

a}  Equal to the product of the line current and impedance.

b}  Equal to the product of the line current and power factor.

c}  Equal to the product of the line current and the surge
impedance.@@

d}  Zero at both ends.


94]  Stacking antenna elements:

a}  Will suppress odd harmonics.

b}  Decrease signal to noise ratio.

c}  Increases sensitivity to weak signals.@@

d}  Increases selectivity.


95]  What allows microwaves to pass in only one direction?

a}  RF emitter.

b}  Ferrite isolator.@@

c}  Capacitor.

d}  Varactor-triac.


96]  What would be added to make a receiving antenna more
directional?

a}  Inductor.

b}  Capacitor.

c}  Parasitic elements.@@

d}  Height.


97]  Nitrogen is placed in transmission lines to:

a}  Improve the "skin-effect" of microwaves.

b}  Reduce arcing in the line.

c}  Reduce the standing wave ratio of the line.

d}  Prevent moisture from entering the line.@@


98]  Neglecting line losses, the voltage at any point along a
transmission line, having no standing waves, will be equal to
the:

a}  Transmitter output.

b}  Product of the line voltage and the surge impedance of the
line.

c}  Product of the line current and the surge impedance of the
line.@@

d}  Product of the resistance and surge impedance of the line.


99]  Adding a capacitor in series with a Marconi antenna:

a}  Increases the antenna circuit resonant frequency.@@

b}  Decreases the antenna circuit resonant frequency.

c}  Blocks the transmission of signals from the antenna.

d}  Increases the power handling capacity of the antenna.


100]  An antenna is carrying an unmodulated signal, when 100%
modulation is impressed, the antenna current:

a}  Goes up 50%.

b}  Goes down one half.

c}  Stays the same.

d}  Goes up 22.5%.@@


101]  An excited 1/2 wavelength antenna produces:

a}  Residual fields.

b}  An electro-magnetic field only.

c}  Both electro-magnetic and electro-static fields.@@

d}  An electro-flux field sometimes.


102]  An antenna which intercepts signals equally from all
horizontal directions is:

a}  Parabolic.

b}  Vertical loop.

c}  Horizontal marconi.

d}  Vertical 1/4 wave.@@


103]  A Loop-antenna:

a}  Is bi-directional.

b}  Is usually vertical.

c}  Is more often used as a receiving antenna.

d}  Any of these.@@


104]  Referred to the fundamental frequency, a shorted stub line
attached to the transmission line to absorb even harmonics could
have a wavelength of:

a}  1.41 wavelengths.

b}  1/2 wavelengths.

c}  1/4 wavelengths.@@

d}  1/6 wavelengths.


105]  Nitrogen gas in concentric RF transmission lines is used
to:

a}  Keep moisture out.

b}  Prevent oxidation.

c}  Act as an insulator.

d}  Keep moisture out and prevent oxidation.@@


106]  "Stacking" elements on an antenna:

a}  Makes for better reception.@@

b}  Makes for poorer reception.

c}  Decreases antenna current.

d}  Decreases directivity.


107]  What type of antenna is attached to an aircraft's Mode
C transponder installation and used to receive 1030 MHz
interrogation signals from the Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon
System (ATCRBS)?

a}  An L-band monopole blade-type omnidirectional antenna.@@

b}  An electronically steerable phased-array directional antenna.

c}  A folded dipole reception antenna.

d}  An internally mounted, mechanically rotatable loop antenna.


108]  The parasitic elements on a receiving antenna:

a}  Increase its directivity.@@

b}  Decrease its directivity.

c}  Have no effect on its impedance.

d}  Make it more nearly omnidirectional.


109]  What type of antenna is attached to an aircraft's Mode
S transponder installation and used to receive 1030 MHz
interrogation signals from the Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon
System (ATCRBS)?

a}  An L-band monopole blade-type omnidirectional antenna.@@

b}  An electronically steerable phased-array directional antenna.

c}  A folded dipole reception antenna.

d}  An internally mounted, mechanically rotatable loop antenna.


110]  The resonant frequency of a Hertz antenna can be lowered
by:

a}  Lowering the frequency of the transmitter.

b}  Placing a condenser in series with the antenna.

c}  Placing a resistor in series with the antenna.

d}  Placing an inductance in series with the antenna.@@


111]  Parasitic elements are useful in a receiving antenna
for:

a}  Increasing directivity.

b}  Increasing selectivity.

c}  Increasing sensitivity.

d}  Increasing directivity and increasing sensitivity.@@


112]  What type of antenna radiates the 1030 MHz
interrogation signals from an aircraft's Mode S Traffic alert and
Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) installation?

a}  An L-band monopole blade-type omnidirectional antenna.

b}  An electronically steerable phased-array directional
antenna.@@

c}  A folded dipole antenna.

d}  An internally mounted, mechanically rotatable loop antenna.


113]  Concerning shipboard satellite dish antenna systems,
azimuth is:

a}  Vertical aiming of the antenna.

b}  Horizontal aiming of the antenna.@@

c}  0 - 90 degrees.

d}  North to east.


114]  What is the effect of adding a capacitor in series to an
antenna?

a}  Resonant frequency will decrease.

b}  Resonant frequency will increase.@@

c}  Resonant frequency will remain same.

d}  Electrical length will be longer.


115]  If a transmission line has a power loss of 6 dB per 100
feet, what is the power at the feed point to the antenna at the
end of a 200 foot transmission line fed by a 100 watt
transmitter?

a}  70 watts.

b}  50 watts.

c}  25 watts.

d}  6 watts.@@


116]  Waveguides are:

a}  Used exclusively in high frequency power supplies.

b}  Ceramic couplers attached to antenna terminals.

c}  High-pass filters used at low radio frequencies.

d}  Hollow metal conductors used to carry high frequency
current.@@


117]  What type of antenna pattern is radiated from a
phased-array directional antenna when transmitting the P1 or P3
Pulse Position Modulated pulses in a Mode S interrogation signal
of an aircraft's Traffic alert and Collision Avoidance System
(TCAS) installation?

a}  A 1090 MHz directional pattern.

b}  A 1030 MHz omnidirectional pattern.

c}  A 1090 MHz omnidirectional pattern.

d}  A 1030 MHz directional pattern.@@


118]  A 520 kHz signal is fed to a 1/2 wave Hertz antenna. The
fifth harmonic will be:

a}  2.65 MHz.

b}  2650 kHz.

c}  2600 KHz.@@

d}  104 kHz.


119]  When a capacitor is connected in series with a Marconi
antenna:

a}  An inductor of equal value must be added.

b}  No change occurs to antenna.

c}  Antenna open circuit stops transmission.

d}  Antenna resonant frequency increases.@@


120]  How do you increase the electrical length of an antenna?

a}  Add an inductor in parallel.

b}  Add an inductor in series.@@

c}  Add a capacitor in series.

d}  Add a resistor in series.


121]  A coaxial cable has 7 dB of reflected power when the
input is 5 watts. What is the output of the transmission line?

a}  5 watts.

b}  2.5 watts.

c}  1.25 watts.

d}  1 watt.@@


122]  What is the 7th harmonic of 450 kHz when fed through a
1/4 wavelength vertical antenna?

a}  3150 Hz.

b}  3150 MHz.

c}  787.5 kHz.

d}  3.15 MHz.@@


123]  What is the 5th harmonic of a 450 kHz transmitter carrier
fed to a 1/4 wave antenna?

a}  562.5 MHz.

b}  1125 kHz.

c}  2250 MHz.

d}  2.25 MHz.@@


124]  Waveguide construction:

a}  Should not use silver plating.

b}  Should not use copper.

c}  Should have short vertical runs.

d}  Should not have long horizontal runs.@@


125]  What type of antenna radiates the 1090 MHz "squitter"
signals from an aircraft's Mode S transponder installation of the
Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon System (ATCRBS)?

a}  An L-band monopole blade-type omnidirectional antenna.@@

b}  An electronically steerable phased-array antenna radiating an
omnidirectional pattern.

c}  A folded dipole antenna.

d}  An internally mounted, mechanically rotatable loop antenna.


126]  To lengthen an antenna electrically, add a:
     
a}  Coil.@@

b}  Resistor.

c}  Battery.

d}  Conduit.


127]  How do you electrically decrease the length of an
antenna?

a}  Add an inductor in series.

b}  Add a capacitor in series.@@

c}  Add an inductor in parallel.

d}  Add a resistor in series.


128]  If the length of an antenna is changed from 1.5 feet to
1.6 feet its resonant frequency will:

a}  Decrease.@@

b}  Increase.

c}  Be 6.7% higher.

d}  Be 6% lower.


129]  To couple energy into and out of a waveguide:
  
a}  Use wide copper sheeting.

b}  Use an LC circuit.

c}  Use capacitive coupling.

d}  Use a thin piece of wire as an antenna.@@


130]  An isolator:

a}  Acts as a buffer between a microwave oscillator coupled to a
waveguide.

b}  Acts as a buffer to protect a microwave oscillator from
variations in line load changes.

c}  Shields UHF circuits from RF transfer.

d}  Acts as a buffer between a microwave oscillator coupled to a
waveguide and acts as a buffer to protect a microwave oscillator from variations in line load changes.@@


131]  A high SWR creates losses in transmission lines. A high
standing wave ratio might be caused by:

a}  Improper turns ratio between primary and secondary in the
plate tank transformer.

b}  Screen grid current flow.

c}  An antenna electrically too long for its frequency.

d}  An impedance mismatch.@@


132]  A properly installed shunt-fed, 1/4 wave Marconi antenna:

a}  Has zero resistance to ground.@@

b}  Has high resistance to ground.

c}  Should be cut to 1/2 wave.

d}  Should not be shunt-fed.


133]  When a capacitor is connected in series with a Marconi
antenna:

a}  An inductor of equal value must be added.

b}  No change occurs to antenna.

c}  Antenna open circuit stops transmission.

d}  Antenna resonant frequency increases.@@


134]  When excited by RF, a half-wave antenna will radiate:

a}  A space wave.

b}  A ground wave.

c}  Electromagnetic fields.

d}  Both electromagnetic and electrostatic fields.@@


135]  Wave guides are:

a}  Used exclusively in high frequency power supplies.

b}  Ceramic couplers attached to antenna terminals.

c}  High pass filters used at low radio frequencies.

d}  Hollow metal conductors used to carry high frequency
current.@@


136]  A 520 kHz signal is fed to a 1/2 wave Hertz antenna.  The
fifth harmonic will be:

a}  2.65 MHz.

b}  2650 kHz.

c}  2600 KHz.@@

d}  1300 kHz.


137]  The voltage produced in a receiving antenna is:

a}  Out of phase with the current if connected properly.

b}  Out of phase with the current if cut to 1/3 wavelength.

c}  Variable depending on the station's SWR.

d}  Always proportional to the received field strength.@@


138]  A properly connected transmission line:

a}  Is grounded at the transmitter end.

b}  Is cut to a harmonic of the carrier frequency  .

c}  Is cut to an even harmonic of the carrier frequency.

d}  Has a SWR as near as 1:1 as possible.@@


139]  Conductance takes place in a waveguide:

a}  By interelectron delay.

b}  Through electrostatic field reluctance.

c}  In the same manner as a transmission line.

d}  Through electromagnetic and electrostatic fields in the walls
of the waveguide.@@


140]  Concerning shunt-fed 1/4 wavelength Marconi antenna: 
     
a}  DC resistance of the antenna to ground is zero.@@

b}  RF resistance from antenna feed point to ground is zero.

c}  Harmonic radiation is zero under all conditions.

d}  It must be grounded at both feed and far ends.


141]  What type of antenna pattern is radiated from a
phased-array directional antenna when transmitting the P2 Side
Lobe Suppression (SLS) pulse in a Mode S interrogation signal of
an aircraft's Traffic alert and Collision Avoidance System (TCAS)
installation?

a}  A 1090 MHz directional pattern.

b}  A 1030 MHz omnidirectional pattern.@@

c}  A 1090 MHz omnidirectional pattern.

d}  A 1030 MHz directional pattern.


142]  If a 3/4 wavelength transmission is shortened at one end,
impedance at the open will be:

a}  Zero.

b}  Infinite.@@

c}  Decreased.

d}  Increased.


143]  A dummy antenna is a:

a}  Non-directional receiver antenna.

b}  Wide bandwidth directional receiver antenna.

c}  Transmitter test antenna designed for minimum radiation.@@

d}  Transmitter non-directional narrow-band antenna.



